
Transcriber's note: A few typographical errors have been corrected: they
are listed at the end of the text.

       *       *       *       *       *


{437}

NOTES AND QUERIES:

A MEDIUM OF INTER-COMMUNICATION FOR LITERARY MEN, ARTISTS, ANTIQUARIES,
GENEALOGISTS, ETC.

"When found, make a note of."--CAPTAIN CUTTLE.

       *       *       *       *       *


No. 237.]
SATURDAY, MAY 13. 1854.
[Price Fourpence. Stamped Edition 5d.

       *       *       *       *       *


CONTENTS.

  NOTES:--                                                    Page

  "Shakspeare's Rime which he made at the Mytre," by
  Dr. E. F. Rimbault                                           439

  Rous, the Sottish Psalmist, Provost of Eton College: and
  his Will, by the Rev. H. T. Ellacombe                        440

  Original English Royal Letters to the Grand Masters of
  Malta, by William Winthrop                                   442

  Disease among Cattle, by Thos. Nimmo                         445

  Popiana, by Harry Leroy Temple                               445

  Hampshire Folk Lore, by Eustace W.
  Jacob                                                        446

  The most curious Book in the World                           446

  Minor Notes:--Baptism, Marriage, and Crowning of
  Geo. III.--Copernicus--First Instance of Bribery amongst
  Members of Parliament--Richard Brinsley Sheridan--Publican's
  Invitation--Bishop Burnet again!--Old Custom preserved in
  Warwickshire--English Diplomacy v. Russian                   447

  QUERIES:--

  Ancient Tenure of Lands, by A. J. Dunkin                     448

  Owen Rowe the Regicide                                       449

  Writings of the Martyr Bradford, by the Rev. A. Townsend     449

  MINOR QUERIES:--Courtney Family--"The Shipwrecked Lovers"--
  Sir John Bingham--Proclamation for making Mustard--Judges
  practising at Bar--Celebrated Wagers--"Pay me tribute, or
  else----"--"A regular Turk"--Benj. Rush--Per Centum Sign--
  Burial Service Tradition--Jean Bart's Descent on Newcastle--
  Madame de Staël--Honoria, Daughter of Lord Denny--Hospital
  of John of Jerusalem--Heiress of Haddon Hall--Monteith--
  Vandyking--Hiel the Bethelite--Earl of Glencairn--Willow
  Bark in Ague--"Perturbabantur," &c.                          450

  MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--Seamen's Tickets--Bruce,
  Robert--Coronation Custom--William Warner--"Isle of
  Beauty"--Edmund Lodge--King John                             452

  REPLIES:--

  Has Execution by Hanging been survived? by William Bates     453

  Coleridge's Christabel, by C. Mansfield Ingleby              455

  General Whitelocke                                           455

  PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Gravelly Wax Negatives--
  Photographic Experience                                      456

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Turkish Language--Dr. Edward
  Daniel Clarke's Charts of the Black Sea--Aristotle on living
  Law--Christ's or Cris Cross Row--Titles to the Psalms in
  the Syriac Version--"Old Rowley"--Wooden Effigies--Abbott
  Families                                                     456

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

  Notes on Books, &c.                                          458

  Books and Odd Volumes Wanted                                 458

  Notices to Correspondents                                    459

       *       *       *       *       *


MR. RUSKIN'S NEW WORK.

Now ready, in crown 8vo., with 15 Plates, price 8s. 6d. cloth,

LECTURES ON ARCHITECTURE AND PAINTING.
BY JOHN RUSKIN,

    Author of "The Stones of Venice," "Modern Painters," "Seven Lamps of
    Architecture," &c.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO.,
65. Cornhill.

       *       *       *       *       *


GOVERNMENT INSPECTION OF NUNNERIES.

This Day, in fcp. 8vo., price 3s. 6d. (post free, 4s.),

QUICKSANDS ON FOREIGN SHORES! This work, which is the production of a lady,
and revised by a prelate highly distinguished in the world of letters,
ought to be in the hands of every Protestant and Catholic in the kingdom.

BLACKADER & CO., 13. Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *


MORELL.--RUSSIA AND ENGLAND, THEIR STRENGTH AND WEAKNESS. By JOHN REYNELL
MORELL. 100 pp., 12mo. sd., price 1s.

WHITTY.--THE GOVERNING CLASSES OF GREAT BRITAIN: POLITICAL PORTRAITS. By
EDWARD M. WHITTY. 232 pp., 12mo. sd., price 1s. 6d.

TRÜBNER & CO., 12. Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *


Now ready, No. VII. (for May), price 2s. 6d., published Quarterly.

RETROSPECTIVE REVIEW (New Series); consisting of Criticisms upon, Analyses
of, and Extracts from, Curious, Useful, Valuable, and Scarce Old Books.

Vol. I., 8vo., pp. 436, cloth 10s. 6d., is also ready.

JOHN RUSSELL SMITH, 36. Soho Square, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


No. II. Of JOHN RUSSELL SMITH'S OLD BOOK CIRCULAR is published this Day;
containing 1200 Choice, Useful, and Curious Books at very moderate prices.
It may be had Gratis on application, or sent by Post on Receipt of a
postage label to frank it.

J. R. SMITH, 36. Soho Square, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


Just published, with ten coloured Engravings, price 5s.,

NOTES ON AQUATIC MICROSCOPIC SUBJECTS OF NATURAL HISTORY, selected from the
"Microscopic Cabinet." By ANDREW PRITCHARD, M.R.I.

Also, in 8vo., pp. 720, plates 24, price 21s., or coloured, 36s.,

A HISTORY OF INFUSORIAL ANIMALCULES, Living and Fossil, containing
Descriptions of every species. British and Foreign, the methods of
procuring and viewing them, &c., illustrated by numerous Engravings. By
ANDREW PRITCHARD, M.R.I.

    "There is no work extant in which so much valuable information
    concerning Infusoria (Animalcules) can be found, and every Microscopist
    should add it to his library."--_Silliman's Journal_.

London: WHITTAKER & CO., Ave Maria Lane.

       *       *       *       *       *


JOHNSTON'S MAPS of the WAR, engraved from entirely New Drawings, and
containing the latest and most accurate information.

I. THE BLACK SEA, CAUCASUS, CRIMEA, &c., with Large Plans of Sevastopol,
and the Positions of the Ships and Batteries, seen from H.M.S.F.
"Retribution." The Bosphorus and Beicos Bay.

II. THE DANUBIAN PRINCIPALITIES, and adjoining Countries from Vienna to
Constantinople, and Map of CENTRAL EUROPE, from St. Petersburg to Cairo.

III. THE BALTIC SEA and GERMAN OCEAN, with enlarged Plans of Cronstadt,
Sveaborg, Revel, Port Baltic, and Gulf of Riga.

Price, coloured. 1s. each, by post, 1s. 4d.; or the Three by Post, 3s. 6d.

    Edinburgh: W. & A. K. JOHNSTON, Geographers and Engravers to the Queen:
    and all Booksellers.

       *       *       *       *       *


    Photographic Pictures, Landscape Camera by Horne & Co.: a new Transit
    Instrument by Troughton & Sims: also Prints and Drawings, and a
    Collection of Paintings, chiefly English Historical Portraits.

PUTTICK AND SIMPSON, Auctioneers of Literary Property, will SELL by
AUCTION, at their Great Room, 191. Piccadilly, on THURSDAY, May 18, and
following Day, an important Collection of Photographic Pictures by the most
celebrated Artists and Amateurs; comprising some _chefs d'oeuvre_ of the
Art, amongst which are large and interesting Views taken in Paris, Rouen,
Brussels, Switzerland, Rome, Venice, various parts of England and Scotland,
Rustic Scenes, Architectural Subjects, Antiquities, &c. Also, some
interesting Prints and Drawings, early proofs of Landseer's Works.

Catalogues will be sent on Application (if at a distance, on Receipt of Two
Stamps).

       *       *       *       *       *


{438}

NEW WORKS TO BE PUBLISHED IN MAY.

       *       *       *       *       *

I.

THE THIRD VOLUME OF THE HISTORY OF EUROPE, from the Fall of Napoleon to the
Accession of Louis Napoleon. By SIR ARCHIBALD ALISON, Bart.

CONTENTS:--Asia Minor, Greece, Turkey, in 1821. The Greek Revolution,
Battle of Navarino, and Establishment of Greek Independence. The War
between Russia and Turkey, 1827-1829. France to the Revolution of 1830, &c.

II.

NARRATIVE of a JOURNEY THROUGH SYRIA AND PALESTINE IN 1851 and 1852. By
LIEUTENANT VAN DE VELDE, late of the Dutch Royal Navy. In 2 vols. 8vo.,
with Map of the Author's Route, Plan of Jerusalem, and other Illustrations.

III.

HISTORY OF THE PROPAGATION OF CHRISTIANITY AMONG THE HEATHEN SINCE THE
REFORMATION. By the REV. W. BROWN, M.D., Secretary of the Scottish
Missionary Society. Third edition, brought down to the Present Time, in 3
vols. 8vo.

IV.

THE SECOND VOLUME.

HISTORY OF THE BYZANTINE AND GREEK EMPIRES. By GEORGE FINLAY, ESQ.
Containing:

From 1057 to the Storming and Sack of Constantinople by the Crusaders in
1204.

From 1204 to the Siege and Capture of Constantinople by the Turks under
Mohammed in 1453.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now published,

PROFESSOR JOHNSTON'S

CHEMISTRY OF COMMON LIFE. Vol. I. Price 5s. With 57 Illustrations, engraved
on Wood by BRANSTON, &c. To be completed in Two Volumes.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BLACK SEA.

The Fourth Edition of MR. OLIPHANT'S

RUSSIAN SHORES OF THE BLACK SEA.

In octavo, with 34 Engravings on Wood, an enlarged Map of the Crimea, and
Map of the Author's Route. Price 14s.

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTORY OF THE FRENCH PROTESTANT REFUGEES, from the Revocation of the Edict
of Nantes. By CHARLES WEISS, Professor of History at the Lycée Bonaparte.
Translated, with the assistance of the Author, by FREDERIC HARDMAN. Demy
8vo., price 14s.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PHYSICAL ATLAS OF NATURAL PHENOMENA.

By ALEXANDER KEITH JOHNSTON, F.R.S.E., F.R.G.S., F.G.S., &c.

A new and carefully revised Edition, in which subjects not overtaken in the
First Edition will be supplied, and the whole work brought into accordance
with the present state of information. To be completed in Twelve Parts,
imperial folio, price 21s. each. Prospectuses may be had of all
Booksellers.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS,
Edinburgh and London.

       *       *       *       *       *


AS SECRETARY OR AMANUENSIS.

A GENTLEMAN who is quite Conversant with the French, German, and Italian
Languages, and well acquainted with Botany and Entomology, is desirous of
obtaining some permanent Employment. The most satisfactory References as to
competency and respectability of family and connexions can be given.

    Address, F. G. H., care of MR. NEWMAN, Printer, 9. Devonshire Street,
    Bishopsgate Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


NEW PIANO MUSIC.--"The celebrated Composer, Theodore Oesten.--It is always
with particular pleasure we direct our attention to those subjects which
are interesting to our fairer readers--such, for instance, as the musical
topics of the day. Every fair pianiste is acquainted with the name of
Theodore Oesten; every piano is loaded with his gay and beautiful
productions. Who does not know, or, knowing, does not admire, his 'Valse
Elegante?' Who is insensible to his beautiful interpretation of Küchen's
'Cradle Song' (Schlummerlied), or his very many elegant transpositions for
the pianoforte, as 'Rousseau's Dream,' Beethoven's admired 'Adelaide,' and
his very remarkable arrangement of our glorious National Anthem 'God Save
the Queen'--all of them worthy (and that is not to say a little) of the
popular arranger of the charming 'When the Swallows hasten Home.' The
singular merits of Theodore Oesten have not escaped the vigilant eye of her
Majesty's music publishers, the Messrs. Robert Cocks & Co. having secured,
as we are informed, the exclusive copyright of his works for this
country."--Vide _Globe_, 18th April, 1854.

LONDON: 6. NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

       *       *       *       *       *


PIANOFORTES, 25 Guineas each.--D'ALMAINE & CO., 20. Soho Square
(established A.D. 1785), sole manufacturers of the ROYAL PIANOFORTES, at 25
Guineas each. Every instrument warranted. The peculiar advantages of these
pianofortes are best described in the following professional testimonial,
signed by the majority of the leading musicians of the age:--"We, the
undersigned members of the musical profession, having carefully examined
the Royal Pianofortes manufactured by MESSRS. D'ALMAINE & CO., have great
pleasure in bearing testimony to their merits and capabilities. It appears
to us impossible to produce instruments of the same size possessing a
richer and finer tone, more elastic touch, or more equal temperament, while
the elegance of their construction renders them a handsome ornament for the
library, boudoir, or drawing-room. (Signed) J. L. Abel, F. Benedict, H. R.
Bishop, J. Blewitt, J. Brizzi, T. P. Chipp, P. Delavanti, C. H. Dolby,
E. F. Fitzwilliam, W. Forde, Stephen Glover, Henri Herz, E. Harrison, H. F.
Hassé, J. L. Hatton, Catherine Hayes, W. H. Holmes, W. Kuhe, G. F.
Kiallmark, E. Land, G. Lanza, Alexander Lee, A. Leffler. E. J. Loder, W. H.
Montgomery, S. Nelson, G. A. Osborne, John Parry, H. Panofka, Henry
Phillips, F. Praegar, E. F. Rimbault, Frank Romer, G. H. Rodwell, E.
Rockel, Sims Reeves, J. Templeton, F. Weber, H. Westrop, T. H. Wright," &c.

D'ALMAINE & CO., 20. Soho Square. Lists and Designs Gratis.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHIC APPARATUS, MATERIALS, and PURE CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS.

KNIGHT & SONS' Illustrated Catalogue, containing Description and Price of
the best forms of Cameras and other Apparatus. Voightlander and Son's
Lenses for Portraits and Views, together with the various Materials, and
pure Chemical Preparations required in practising the Photographic Art.
Forwarded free on receipt of Six Postage Stamps.

Instructions given in every branch of the Art.

An extensive Collection of Stereoscopic and other Photographic Specimens.

GEORGE KNIGHT & SONS, Foster Lane, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHAPMAN'S LIBRARY FOR THE PEOPLE.

THE CATHOLIC SERIES.

UNIFORM, IN POST OCTAVO, CLOTH.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready, price 3s. 6d.

CATHOLIC UNION: Essays, towards a Church of the Future, as the Organisation
of Philanthropy. By FRANCIS WILLIAM NEWMAN.

THE SPHERE AND DUTIES OF GOVERNMENT. Translated from the German of BARON
WILHELM VON HUMBOLDT. By JOSEPH COULTHARD, Jun.

London JOHN CHAPMAN, 142. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHAPMAN'S LIBRARY FOR THE PEOPLE.

Now ready.

OVER-LEGISLATION. By HERBERT SPENCER. Reprinted, with Additions, from "The
Westminster Review." New Series. No. VII. July, 1853. 8d.

A DEFENCE OF RELIGION. By HENRY W. CROSSKEY. 1s.

THE BOOK OF JOB. By J. A. FROUDE, M.A., late Fellow of Exeter College,
Oxford. Reprinted from "The Westminster Review." New Series. No. VIII.
October, 1853. 8d.

London: JOHN CHAPMAN, 142. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *


Just ready.

ZENO: a Tale of the Italian War, and other Poems. By JAMES D. HORROCKS.
Fcap. 8vo., cloth. 5s.

London: JOHN CHAPMAN, 142. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *


In a few days, price 2s. 6d.

ULTIMA THULE or, Thoughts suggested by a Residence in New Zealand. By
THOMAS CHOLMONDELEY.

A HISTORY OF THE SESSION 1852-3, a Parliamentary Retrospect. Fcap. 8vo.,
cloth, 1s. 6d.

London: JOHN CHAPMAN, 142. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW.--NEW SERIES. No. X. APRIL, 1854.

              CONTENTS:
  1. Results of the Census of 1851.
  2. Manners and Fashion.
  3. Archbishop Whately on Christianity.
  4. Criminal Legislation and Prison Discipline.
  5. Lord Campbell as a Writer of History.
  6. Schamyl, the Prophet-Warrior of the Caucasus.
  7. Thomas De Quincey and his Works.
  8. The Balance of Power in Europe.

Cotemporary Literature:--§ 1. Theology, Philosophy, and Politics. § 2
Science. § 3. Classics and Philology. § 4. History, Biography, Voyages, and
Travels. § 5. Belles Lettres. § 6. Art.

    "This number is the most equal and most readable of the New
    Series."--_Economist._

    "The Westminster Review seems to be in a rising way.... Of the eight
    articles four are of immediate interest."--_Daily News._

    "The paper on cotemporary literature concludes a volume of more than
    average interest."--_Oxford Chronicle._

    "Schamyl, a paper of remarkable interest."--_Commonwealth._

London: JOHN CHAPMAN, 142. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *


{439}

_LONDON, SATURDAY, MAY 13, 1854._

Notes.

"SHAKSPEARE'S RIME WHICH HE MADE AT THE MYTRE."

In the third volume of Mr. Collier's valuable _History of Dramatic Poetry_
(p. 275.) is the following passage, which forms part of a note:

    "Mr. Thorpe, the enterprising bookseller of Bedford Street, is in
    possession of a MS. full of songs and poems, in the handwriting of a
    person of the name of Richard Jackson, all copied prior to the year
    1631, and including many unpublished pieces, by a variety of celebrated
    poets. One of the most curious is a song in five seven-line stanzas,
    thus headed 'Shakspeare's rime, which he made at the Mytre in Fleete
    Streete.' It begins 'From the rich Lavinian shore;' and some few of the
    lines were published by Playford, and set as a catch."

In Mr. Thoms' _Anecdotes and Traditions_ (published by the Camden Society)
is a story of the celebrated Dr. John Wilson, to which the editor has
appended an interesting note, adding:

    "Wilson was the composer of a glee for three voices, published in
    Playford's _Musical Companion_, where the words are attributed to
    Shakspeare; and the supposition that they were really written by him
    having been converted into a certainty, by their appearing with
    Shakspeare's name to them in the MS. Collection of Poetry, copied prior
    to 1631 by Richard Jackson," &c.

Mr. Thoms then prints the "rime," not inappropriately calling it "A Song
for Autolycus," with this remark:

    "My late respected friend Mr. Douce once told me, that some musical
    friend at Chichester, I think the organist, possessed a copy of this
    song, with an additional verse."

Mr. Thoms' version of "Shakspeare's Rime" was inserted (probably by our
worthy Editor himself?) in the first volume of "N. & Q." (p. 23.) with a
view of obtaining the additional stanza; a desideratum which I am now
enabled to supply. The following copy has _two_ additional stanzas, and is
transcribed from a MS. Collection of Songs, with the music, written in the
early part of the reign of James I. The MS. was formerly in the possession
of Mr. J. S. Smith, the learned editor of _Musica Antiqua_.

              I.

 "From the fair Lavinian shore,
  I your markets come to store;
  Marvel not, I thus far dwell,
  And hither bring my wares to sell;
  Such is the sacred hunger of gold.
    Then come to my pack,
      While I cry,
    What d'ye lack,
      What d'ye buy?
  For here it is to be sold.

              II.

 "I have beauty, honour, grace,
  Virtue, favour, time and space,
  And what else thou wouldst request,
  E'en the thing thou likest best;
  First, let me have but a touch of thy gold,
    Then come too lad,
      Thou shalt have
    What thy dad
      Never gave;
  For here it is to be sold.

              III.

 "Though thy gentry be but young,
  As the flow'r that this day sprung,
  And thy father thee before,
  Never arms nor scutcheon bore;
  First let me have but a catch of thy gold,
    Then, though thou be an ass,
      By this light
    Thou shalt pass
      For a knight;
  For here it is to be sold.

              IV.

 "Thou whose obscure birth so base,
  Ranks among the ignoble race,
  And desireth that thy name,
  Unto honour should obtain;
  First let me have but a catch of thy gold,
    Then, though thou be an ass,
      By this light,
    Thou shalt pass
      For a knight;
  For here it is to be sold.

              V.

 "Madam, come see what you lack?
  Here's complexion in my pack;
  White and red you may have in this place,
  To hide an old ill-wrinkled face:
  First, let me have but a catch of thy gold,
    Then thou shalt seem,
    Like a wench of fifteen,
  Although you be threescore and ten years old."

That this song enjoyed extensive popularity in the latter half of the
seventeenth century, is evinced by the number of printed copies. It is
found in Playford's _Select Ayres and Dialogues_, 1659; in Dr. Wilson's
_Cheerfull Ayres and Ballads_, 1660; in Playford's _Catch that Catch Can_,
1667; and in many subsequent collections of a similar kind. But in none of
these works is the name of the writer of the words given; and all the
copies are deficient of the _third_ and _fourth_ stanzas. The point of the
satire conveyed in these stanzas was lost after the reign of James I.,
which may account for their omission.

"Shakspeare's rime," being associated with Wilson's music, is of some
importance towards settling the point of authorship. In 1846 I printed a
little pamphlet with the following title:

    "Who was _Jack Wilson_, the Singer of Shakspeare's Stage? An Attempt to
    prove the Identity of this {440} Person with John Wilson, Doctor of
    Musick, in the University of Oxford, A.D. 1644."

It would be out of place here to dwell upon this publication, suffice it to
say, that all the information I have since collected, tends to confirm the
hypothesis advanced. One extract from this _brochure_ will show the
connexion that existed between Shakspeare and Wilson:

    "Wilson was the composer of four other Shakspearian lyrics, a fact
    unknown to Mr. Collier, when he wrote the article in the _Shakspeare
    Papers_: 'Where the bee sucks,' 'Full fathom five,' 'Lawn as white as
    driven snow,' and 'From the fair Lavinian shore.' They are all printed
    in the author's _Cheerfull Ayres or Ballads_, Oxford, 1660. We have now
    evidence from this work, that Wilson was the _original_ composer of the
    music to _one_ of Shakspeare's plays. He says in his preface, 'some of
    these ayres were _originally_ composed by those whose names are affixed
    to them, but are here placed as being _new set_ by the author of the
    rest. The two songs, 'Where the bee sucks,' and 'Full fathom five,'
    have appended to them the name of 'R. Johnson,' who, upon this
    evidence, we may undoubtedly conclude was the _original_ composer of
    the music in the play of the _Tempest_. The song 'Lawn as white as
    driven snow,' from the _Winter's Tale_, has the name of 'John Wilson'
    attached to it, from which it is equally certain that he was its
    _original_ composer. In my own mind, the circumstances connected with
    the Shakspearian lyrics in this book are almost conclusive as to the
    identity of John Wilson the _composer_ with John Wilson the _singer_.
    Unless the composer had been intimately acquainted with the theatre of
    Shakspeare's day, it is not likely that he would have remembered, so
    long after, the name of one of its composers. Nor is it likely, being
    so well acquainted with the _original_ composers of the Shakspearian
    drama, and so anxious as he appears to have been to do justice to their
    memory, that he would have omitted informing us, who was the _original_
    composer of the song in the _Winter's Tale_, had it been any other than
    himself. The _Winter's Tale_ was not produced before 1610 or 1611, at
    which period Wilson was sixteen or seventeen years old, an age quite
    ripe enough for the production of the song in question."

A reviewer of my little publication in the _Athenæum_ (Nov. 8, 1846) makes
the following remark:

    "Let us observe, in conclusion, that Dr. Rimbault is better read in
    Jack Wilson than Ben Jonson, or we should never have seen Mr.
    Shakspeare's 'Rime' at the 'Mitre,' in Fleet Street, seriously referred
    to as a genuine composition. It is a mere clumsy adaptation, from Ben's
    interesting epigram 'Inviting a Friend to Supper.'"

It is really too bad to be charged with ignorance _unjustly_. I have on my
shelves the works of glorious Ben, three times over: in folio 1616-31; in
folio, 1692; and in nine volumes octave (Gifford's edition), 1816; all of
which I will freely give to the "reviewer," if he can prove that _one line_
of "Shakspeare's Rime at the Mytre" is taken from the aforesaid epigram. I
heartily agree with him in admiration of Jonson's spirited imitation of
Martial, which I have transcribed as a pleasant relish towards digesting
these rambling remarks:

         "INVITING A FRIEND TO SUPPER.

 "To-night, grave Sir, both my poor house and I
  Do equally desire your company:
  Not that we think us worthy such a guest,
  But that your worth will dignify our feast,
  With those that come; whose grace may make that seem
  Something, which else could hope for no esteem.
  It is the fair acceptance, Sir, creates
  The entertainment perfect, not the cates.
  Yet shall you have, to rectify your palate,
  An olive, capers, or some better salad,
  Ushering the mutton; with a short-legg'd hen,
  If we can get her, full of eggs, and then,
  Limons, and wine for sauce: to these, a coney
  Is not to be despair'd of for our money;
  And though fowl now be scarce, yet there are clerks,
  The sky not falling, think we may have larks.
  I'll tell you of more, and lie, so you will come:
  Of partridge, pheasant, woodcock, of which some
  May yet be there; and godwit if we can;
  Knat, rail, and ruff too. Howsoe'er my man
  Shall read a piece of Virgil, Tacitus,
  Livy, or of some better book to us,
  Of which we'll speak our minds, amidst our meat;
  And I'll profess no verses to repeat;
  To this if aught appear, which I not know of,
  That will the pastry, not my paper, show of.
  Digestive cheese, and fruit there sure will be;
  But that which most doth take my muse and me,
  Is a pure cup of rich Canary wine,
  Which is the Mermaid's now, but shall be mine;
  Of which had Horace or Anacreon tasted,
  Their lives, as do their lines, till now had lasted.
  Tobacco, nectar, or the Thespian spring,
  Are all but Luther's beer, to this I sing,
  Of this we will sup free, but moderately,
  And we will have no Pooly', or Parrot by;
  Nor shall our cups make any guilty men:
  But at our parting, we will be, as when
  We innocently met. No simple word,
  That shall be utter'd at our mirthful board,
  Shall make us sad next morning; or affright
  The liberty, that we'll enjoy to-night."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROUS, THE SCOTTISH PSALMIST, PROVOST OF ETON COLLEGE: AND HIS WILL.

Looking over some back Numbers of "N. & Q.," I see an inquiry (Vol. v.,
p. 81.) after Francis Rous. G. N. will find an account of him in Chalmers's
_Biographical Dictionary_, gathered out of Wood's _Athenæ_; Noble's _Memoir
of Cromwell_, vol. i. {441} p. 409; Lysons' _Environs of London_, vol. ii.;
_Granger_, vol. iii.

In his will, a copy of which lies before me, proved Feb. 10, 1658, he
speaks of "a youth in Scotland, his grandson," and "as the heir of idleness
abhorring to give him an estate, but wishing he might be a useful member of
Christ and the Commonwealth, he desires his executors to give him 50l. a
year so long as he shall be in preparation towards a profession, and as
many of his books as may be fit for him."

I shall be much obliged if any correspondent can find out anything farther
about the said "youth in Scotland?"

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Clyst St. George.

P.S.--Why should not "N. & Q." be the publisher of any curious old wills,
which might interest the general reader? Allow me to suggest a corner for
_Testamenta Vestusta_. I will begin by sending a copy of the will of
Francis Rous.

    This my last Will and Testament, I, Francis Rous,   Provost of Eaton
    College, wrote and made   March 18th, 1657.

    Forasmuch as to put houses in order before our departure is pleasing to
    the God of order, I do dispose of my affairs and estates in manner
    following:

    There is a youth in Scotland concerning whom (because they call him my
    grandson) it is perchance expected that I should do some great matters
    for him; but his father marrying against my will and prohibition, and
    giving me an absolute discharge before the marriage under his hand, not
    to expect anything from me if he did marry contrary to my prohibition,
    I hold myself discharged from the father, and consequently from the son
    of that father, the son having no interest in me but by the father. And
    I hold it a good example, for the benefitt of the Commonwealth, that
    matters of discouragement should be put upon such marriages, being
    assured that their parents will not disinheritt or lessen them,
    especially if they have but one son, and that which Solomon saith is to
    be considered--an understanding servant shall have rule over a son that
    maketh ashamed, and both that[1], and his son, and his son in Scotland
    have both made ashamed, the one in his match, the other by a sad
    mischief of dangerous consequence and fatal; and though his mother is
    bound to maintain him, yet because I wish he might be a useful member
    of Christ and the Commonwealth, towards which I think she is not well
    able to give him an answerable education, I have in this my will taken
    course for a competent maintenance for him towards a profession, and in
    it utterly abhorring to give him an estate, as the heir of idleness.
    Wherefore to the fore-mentioned purpose, I desire my executor to give
    him 50l. a year, so long as he shall be in preparation towards a
    profession, or shall really and seriously be in the practice of it; and
    as many of my books as may be fitt for him in the profession he shall
    undertake, and shall not be given to Pembroke College, I desire my
    executor to give unto him: but if he, or a guardian, or any other,
    shall sue or implead, or call my executor into question to his trouble
    or cost, I leave it to my executor's choice whether he will pay his
    maintenance of 50l. per annum, or any part of it.

    I give to Mr. Ellford, my pastor at Acton, 20l. I give 5l. per annum
    for ever to be disposed of in buying Bibles, catechisms, or for
    encouraging poor children to learn to read and answer in catechising in
    the parish of Dittisham, in the county of Devon, the place of my
    nativity and baptism, which sum shall be bestowed according to the
    direction of the minister there for the time being; and to the present
    minister I give 20l. I give to the poor of Acton each five shillings; I
    give to the poor of Westminster, Kensington, Knightsbridge, half a
    year's rent of that which they used to receive. I give Mr. Bartlett of
    Windsor 20l. I appoint 100l. to be lent to my nephew William Rous,
    which he must pay by 10l. a year to my nephew Richard Rous, his son. I
    give Thomas Rous, of King's College, 6l. for two years. I give Eliz.
    Rous, of Penrose in Cornwall, 20l. I give Anthony Rous at Eaton School,
    5l. a year for seven years. I give to my niece Rudyard, and her sisters
    Skelton and Dorothy, each 20l. I give to Margaret Baker 10l. I give to
    a poor Xtian woman in Dartmouth, Mrs. Adams, 10l. To Robert Needler I
    give a black suit and cloak; the like to William Grantham and 10l. To
    my niece Portman, now in my house, I give 50l. To my other friends of
    more ability, I leave it to my executor to give such memorials as he
    shall think fitt. To the poor of Eaton I give 20l. To each of my
    servants that are with me at any decease I give black suits and 5l.;
    and to Peter Fluellen, who is now endeavouring to get a place of
    removal, 10l. I give to Thomas Rolle of Eaton, and Robert Yard, each
    10l. I give to Christian, now the wife of Mr. Johnson, 20l. I give to
    the young Winnington of Eaton, 10l. I give 40l. per annum out of the
    Parsonage or Tythe of Great Brookeham in Surrey, to maintain two
    schollars in Pembroke College in Oxford. I also give 20l. per annum
    unto one schollar more in the same college, out of a tenement in the
    Manor of Wootton in Cornwall, during two lives of two Bigfords, and
    after their decease out of a tenement of mine in Cowkberry, in Devon,
    for ever. The scholars to be chosen are to be poor, {442} not having
    10l. a year, apt to learning, and to be of the posterity of myself or
    my brother Robert, Richard, or Arthur Rous, or of my sister Nicholl, or
    my sister Upton; and if no such shall be tendered, then they are to be
    chosen out of the two highest forms in Eaton College. I give power to
    my executor to choose them during his life, and desire him, with the
    advice of my dear kinsman, Mr. Ambrose Upton, Prebend of Xt Church in
    Oxford, to settle and order all things for the sure and usefull
    continuance of their allowances to schollars so qualified as before and
    of good conversation, and that they study divinity, and some time
    before they be Batchelors of Arts, they make good proof of their
    studying divinity, and that they continued in their several places but
    _seven years_, and then others to be chosen in their rooms. What shall
    be above 40l. per annum arising out of the tythe of Brookham declaro,
    and above all rates and taxes, I give unto the minister of that parish;
    and I give the parsonage to my respected kinsman Samuel Rous, Esq., of
    that parish, yet so, that if he die before my executor, my executor
    shall present during his life, and after it shall go to the heirs of
    the said Samuel Rous, it being to be hoped that their dwelling be there
    they will be carefull for their own souls. I do make and constitute my
    dear kinsman Anthony Rous, Esq., of Wootton, in the county of Cornwall,
    commonly called or known by the name of Colonel Rous, to be my whole
    and sole executor. And I give and bequeath to him all my lands,
    tenements, my interest in the parsonage of Great Brookham in Surrey,
    all my leases, chattels, plate, money, and other goodly whatsoever, as
    also my copyholds, which shall, according to custom, be made over to
    him in Acton or Branford, hoping that he will faithfully dispose them
    according to my will and intention made known to him; and I give him
    100l., and lend him 200l. more for seven years, which he may bestow in
    defence of himself as to law suits, if any be brought as concerning my
    estate, or if there shall be none to bestow, in some charitable use as
    he shall think fitt. I desire my body may be interred and put to rest
    in the chapple of Eaton College, a place that hath my dear affections
    and prayers that it may be a flouring nursery of piety and learning to
    the end of the world. And for a profession of any faith, I refer myself
    to the works which I not long since published in one volume, wherein I
    have professed a right and saving faith, and hope to continue therein
    until faith shall be swallowed up of sight, laying hold of the free
    grace of God in his beloved Son as my only title to eternity, being
    confident that his free grace, which took me up lying in the blood of
    irregeneration, will wash away the guilt of that estate, and all the
    cursed fruits of it by the pretious blood of his Son, and will wash
    away the filth of it by the spirit of his Son, and so present me
    faultless before the presence of God's glory with joy.

  (Signed) FRANCIS ROUS.

    The Right Honorable Francis Rous, Esq., acknowledged this to be his
    last will and testament, the 12th day of April, 1658[2], in the
    presence of me, Abel Borsett, endorsed, upon a paper wherein the
    original will was folded and sealed up, thus, viz., "My last will,
    attested by Mr. Humphreys and Mr. Borsett."

    This will was proved at London the 10th day of February, in the year of
    our Lord God 1658, before the judges for probate of wills and granting
    administrations lawfully authorised, by the oath of Collonell Anthony
    Rouse, Esq., the sole and only executor named in the said will, to whom
    administration of all and singular the goods, chattels, and debts of
    the said deceased was granted and committed.

[Footnote 1: This appears to be an error.]

[Footnote 2: It should doubtless be 1657.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGINAL ENGLISH ROYAL LETTERS TO THE GRAND MASTERS OF MALTA.

(_Concluded from_ Vol. ix., p. 419.)

No. XI.

    Charles the Second by the grace of God, of Great Britain, France, and
    Ireland, King, Defender of the Faith, &c.

To the most illustrious and most high Prince, the Lord Nicholas Cotoner,
Grand Master of the Order of Malta, our well-beloved cousin and
friend--Greeting:

It having appeared to us a matter of interest, not only to ourselves, but
likewise to the whole Christian world, that we also should keep in the
Mediterranean sea a certain number of galleys ready to afford prompt aid to
our neighbours and allies against the frequent insults of the barbarians
and Turks, we lately caused to be constructed two galleys, one in Genoa,
and the other in the port of Leghorn; in order to man these, we directed a
person well acquainted with such affairs to be sent, as to other parts, so
also to the island of Malta, subject to the rule of your highness, in order
to _buy slaves and procure other necessaries_. He having purchased some
slaves, it has been reported to us that your highness' collector of customs
demanded five pieces of gold of Malta money per head before they could be
permitted to embark, under the title of toll; at which proceeding we were
certainly not a little astonished, it appearing to us a new proceeding, and
one contrary to custom, especially it being well known to us that our
neighbours and allies, the Kings of France and Spain, are never accustomed
to pay anything under the title of toll {443} for the slaves which they
cause yearly to be transported from your island.

We therefore beg your highness, by the good and long friendship existing
between us, to grant to us the same privilege in _regard to this kind of
commerce_ within the territories of your highness, as is enjoyed by both
our said neighbours and allies, which although it ought to be conceded to
us simply on account of our mutual friendship and our affection towards
your highness and the illustrious Order of Malta, still we shall receive so
gratefully, that if at any time we can do anything to please your highness,
we shall be always ready to do it, with all attention, and most willingly.

In the meantime we heartily recommend your highness and all the members of
the illustrious Order of Malta, as well as all your affairs, to the Divine
keeping.

Given from our palace of Westminster on the 12th day of February, in the
year of our Lord 1673, and of our reign the 25th.

  Your Highness' good Cousin and Friend,
                  CHARLES REX.

No. XII.

    Charles the Second by the grace of God, of Great   Britain, France, and
    Ireland, King, Defender of   the Faith, &c.

To the most eminent Prince, the Lord Nicholas Cotoner, Grand Master of the
Order of Malta, our well-beloved cousin and friend--Greeting:

Most eminent Prince, our well-beloved cousin and friend.

The military order over which your eminence most worthily presides, having
always used its power to render the navigation of the sea safe and
peaceable for Christians, we in no way doubt that our ships of war, armed
for the same purpose, will receive from your eminence every office of
friendship. We therefore are desirous of signifying to your eminence by
these our letters that we have sent a squadron of our royal fleet to the
Mediterranean sea under the command of Sir John Narbrough, knight, to look
after the safety of navigation and commerce, and to oppose the enemies of
public tranquillity. We therefore amicably beseech your eminence that if
ever the above-named Admiral Narbrough, or any of our ships cruising under
his flag, should arrive at any of your eminence's ports or stations, or in
any place subject to the Order of Malta, that they may be considered and
treated as friends and allies, and that they may be permitted to purchase
with their money, and at just prices, and to export provisions and
munitions of war, and whatever they may require, which, on similar
occasions, we will abundantly reciprocate to your eminence and to your most
noble Order.

In the mean time we heartily recommend your eminence to the safeguard of
the Most High and Most Good God.

Given from our palace of Whitehall the last day of November, 1674.

  Your Highness' Cousin and Friend,
                  CHARLES REX.

No. XIII.

    Charles the Second by the Grace of God, of Great   Britain, France, and
    Ireland, King, Defender   of the Faith, &c.

To the most eminent Prince the Lord Nicholas Cotoner, Grand Master of the
Order of Malta, our well-beloved cousin and friend.

Most eminent Prince, our cousin and well-beloved friend--Greeting:

Although we in no way doubt of the sincere readiness of your eminence and
of your holy Order of Malta to do everything which might be known to be
expedient for our interests, still we could not read your eminence's
letters under date of 24th March last, in which such readiness is fully set
forth, without the greatest pleasure. Our affection is sharpened and
excited by the mention of the good will of our predecessors, the Kings of
Great Britain, evinced in every age towards your most illustrious Order,
which, as your eminence in your said letters so honourably commemorates, so
will we studiously endeavour to imitate, and even to surpass. From our
admiral, Sir John Narbrough, knight, and also from other parties, we have
heard with how much benignity your eminence lately received him, and caused
him and the other officers of our fleet to be supplied with what was
requisite for our ships of war, which we consider not less worthy of the
piety and valour of your Order than of our friendship; and we on our part,
on opportunity presenting itself, will be careful to abundantly reciprocate
by every kind of good offices.

It remains to recommend your eminence and the whole of your holy Order
militant to the safeguard of the God of Hosts.

Given from our palace of Whitehall the 19th day of May, 1675.

  Your Eminence's good Cousin and Friend,
                  CHARLES REX.

No. XIV.

    Charles the Second by the grace of God, of Great   Britain, France, and
    Ireland, King, Defender   of the Faith, &c.

To the most eminent Prince the Lord Nicholas Cotoner, Grand Master of the
Order of Malta, our well-beloved cousin and friend--Greeting:

Most eminent Prince, our well-beloved cousin and friend.

We know not how it came to pass that our admiral in the Mediterranean sea,
Sir John Narbrough, knight, should have given such cause of complaint as
mentioned in your eminence's letters addressed to us under date of the 5th
of April, as to have refused to give the usual salute to the city {444} of
Malta, unless, perhaps, he had thought something had been omitted on the
part of the Maltese which he considered due to our dignity, and to the flag
of our royal fleet. Be it, however, as it may, your eminence may be
persuaded that it is our fixed and established intention to do and perform
everything both ourselves and by our officers amply to show how much we
esteem the sacred person of your eminence and the Order of Malta.

In order, therefore, that it should already appear that we do not wish
greater honour to be paid to any prince than to your eminence and to your
celebrate Order, we have directed our above-mentioned admiral to accord all
the same signs of friendship and good will towards your eminence's ports
and citadels as towards those of the most Christian and catholic kings; and
we no way doubt your Order will equally show that benevolence towards us
which it is customary to show to the above-mentioned kings, or to either of
them.

It only remains to us to heartily recommend your eminence and all your
military Order to the safeguard of the Most High and Most Good God.

Given from our palace of Whitehall on the 21st day of June, 1675.

  Your Eminence's good Cousin and Friend,
                  CHARLES REX.

No. XV.

    Charles the Second by the grace of God, of Great   Britain, France, and
    Ireland, King, Defender   of the Faith, &c.

To the most eminent prince the Lord Nicholas Cotoner, Grand Master of the
Order of Malta, our well-beloved cousin and friend--Greeting:

Most eminent Prince, our well-beloved cousin and friend.

Not only by the letters of Sir John Narbrough, knight, whom we appointed in
right and power to be the admiral of our fleet in the Mediterranean sea,
but also from other sources, we have heard how benignantly your eminence,
both by command and example, and all the sacred Order of Malta, have
treated him and the other commanders of our ships, so much so that they
could not have been better at home, and in our dockyards, than in your port
of Malta. This is, indeed, a sign of great friendship, and the more so that
our kingdoms and seas are so far distant from the usual navigation of the
sacred Order of Malta, that few occasions could be expected to offer
themselves to us of reciprocating the friendship of your eminence. Some
other mode, therefore, must be sought by which we may testify our gratitude
and affection towards your eminence and the other members of your most
sacred Order, to do which we shall willingly embrace and studiously search
after every opportunity which may offer.

In the mean time we heartily recommend your eminence and all your military
Order to the safeguard of the Most High and Most Good God.

Given from our palace of Whitehall the 26th day of January, 1675-6.

  Your Eminence's good Cousin and Friend,
                  CHARLES REX.

No. XVI.

    Charles the Second by the grace of God, of Greet   Britain, France, and
    Ireland, King, Defender of   the Faith, &c.

To the most eminent Prince the Lord Nicholas Cotoner, Grand Master of the
Order of Malta, our well-beloved cousin and friend.

Most eminent Prince, our most dear cousin and friend.

Our well-beloved and faithful Sir John Narbrough, knight, latterly admiral
of our fleet in the Mediterranean sea, conveyed to us your eminence's
letters written under date of the 7th of April last, which being most full
indeed of affection and gratitude on your part, we received and perused
with equal feelings and satisfaction. The acknowledgments of benefits
conferred by us, which your eminence so frequently expresses, causes us
also to return similar thanks to your eminence and to the whole of your
sacred Order, for all those offices of humanity and courtesy with which you
assisted our above-mentioned admiral and other our ships stationed in that
sea, of which we shall always preserve the memory indelibly engraved in our
hearts. It is equally a source of pleasure to us that our arms have been of
help to your eminence and to your Order; and if the expedition had been of
no other benefit, we consider it ample compensation in having restored to
their homes so many persons celebrated through the whole Christian and
Infidel world who were recovered from the power and chains of the
barbarians.

May your eminence continue to desire that we should freely divide the glory
of rendering peaceful the Mediterranean sea with the illustrious Order of
Malta!

May the Most Good and Great God sustain and preserve your eminence with all
your religious Order!

Given from our palace of Whitehall the 28th day of October, 1676.

  Your Eminence's good Cousin and Friend,
                  CHARLES REX.

No. XVII.

    Charles the Second by the grace of God, of Great   Britain, France, and
    Ireland, King, Defender of   the Faith, &c.

To the most eminent Prince the Lord Nicholas Cotoner, Grand Master of the
Order of Malta, our well-beloved cousin and friend--Greeting:

Most eminent Prince, our well-beloved cousin and friend.

The thanks which your eminence, by your {445} letters written under date of
the 15th of August last, returns to us on account of the fifty knights of
your Order liberated by our assistance from the slavery of the barbarians,
could hardly be more acceptable to us than the prayers adjoined in the
above-mentioned letters for the liberation from the slavery of the
Algerines of another member of your holy Order, the German, John Robert A.
Stael. We in consequence, in order that we my not appear to be wanting
either in the will or in affection towards your eminence, have communicated
our orders to our well-beloved and faithful subject, Sir John Narbrough,
knight, commanding our fleet in those seas, that if the city of Algiers
should be constrained to agree to a treaty of just peace and submission by
the force of our arms, assisted by Divine help, he should use every effort
in his power, so that the liberty of the said John Robert A. Stael be
obtained.

Your eminence is already well aware of the fidelity and zeal of our
above-mentioned admiral, and we have no doubt that he will willingly and
strenuously observe our orders on that head.

It remains for us to heartily recommend your eminence and the whole of your
military Order to the safeguard of the Most High and Most Good God.

Given from our palace of Whitehall the 2nd day of November, in the year of
our Lord 1678.

  Your Eminence's good Cousin and Friend,
                  CHARLES REX.

WILLIAM WINTHROP.

La Valetta, Malta.

       *       *       *       *       *

DISEASE AMONG CATTLE.

For some years past, a great many cattle have died from a disease of the
lungs, for which I believe no effectual antidote has been discovered. This
fact having been mentioned to a German in London, who had formerly been a
_Rossarzt_ or veterinary surgeon in the Prussian army, he stated that he
had known a similar disease to prevail in Germany; and that by
administering a decoction of _Erica communis_ (Common Heath), mixed with
tar, the progress of the disease had in many instances been arrested.

In order, therefore, that the British farmer may obtain the benefit of this
gentleman's experience, and that he may receive all manner of justice, I
beg leave to send you a literal copy of the recipe which he was kind enough
to give _pro bono publico_.

"REMEDY AGAINST THE PRESENT DISEASE AMONG CATTLE.

    "Taken Erika communis, and boiled it into water of such quantity, that
    the water after boiling coloured like beer; generally of a pinte of
    water ¼--½ lb. Erika communis, and boiling 5 to 6 hours. After it is
    be done, filled the fluids trough a seive in ather boiler, and mixed
    the same with 1/20 part of common tear. In order to make a good
    composition from it, you must boiling the tear and the fluide to a
    second time of 2--3 hour's and much storret. After then the medecin is
    to by ready.

    "Everry cattle sicke or well must you giving of three times to day,
    everry time one pot from the said mixture, which you have befor keapet
    a little warm but not to much heat. Keepet werry much from the fluide
    of Erika communis not mixed with tear, and give to drinke the cattle a
    much as possible. Everry cattle liked to drinke such fluide.

    "Becom's the tongue stick, black pumpels, or becom's the mouth and
    palatt red and sort, washe it out with a softe brush deyed in a mixture
    as follow described: One part of hony, 3 parts of vinaigre, 3 parts of
    water, and one half part of burned and grinded allumn.

    "Becom's the cattle in the legs, generally in the klawes, washed the
    sores with cold water, that you mixed 1 once white vitriol, and 1 once
    burned allumn of a pint of water, 3--4 times to day, and keepet the
    cattle everry time day's and night's in the open air of meadows or
    lots. Everry cattle become's in the first time that it is driven out
    the stables to the green feeding of meadow's, &c. a little sickness,
    generally a little diarrhae, and this is a remedy against the disease
    as before stated.

    "If you continnuit with the firste remedy, you should findet that the
    cattle becom's a verry slight influence of the said disease."

THOS. NIMMO.

       *       *       *       *       *

POPIANA.

I. In Roscoe's edition of _Pope_, vol. iv. p. 465., is this epitaph:

 "Well then, poor G---- lies underground,
    So there's an end of honest Jack:
  So little justice here he found,
   'Tis ten to one he'll ne'er come back."

This must have been running in Goldsmith's heed when he wrote:

 "Here lies poor Ned Purdon, from misery freed,
    Who long was a bookseller's hack:
  He led such a damnable life in this world,
    I don't think he'll wish to come back."

II. Epigram on the feuds between Handel and Bononcini:

 "Strange! all this difference should be,
 'Twixt Tweedle-DUM and Tweedle-DEE!"

The various editors print only these two lines. Where have I seen it
printed as follows, in _six_ lines; and whence came the other four?[3]

{446}

 "Some say, that Signior Bononcini
  Compared to Handel's a mere ninny;
  Others aver, that to him Handel
  Is scarcely fit to hold a candle:
  Strange that," &c.

III. In "N. & Q.," Vol. i., p. 245., the following passage occurs:

    "In the Imitation of the _Second Satire, Book I._ of Horace, _only to
    be found in modern editions_, there is an allusion to 'poor E----s,'
    who suffered by 'the fatal steel' for an intrigue with a Royal
    Mistress."

Query, in _what_ modern editions is this imitation found? I have searched
most of them (including the last, and by no means the worst, by Mr. Robert
Carruthers) in vain.

IV. It has always seemed to me desirable that a perfect edition of an
author like Pope, whose pages teem with proper names frequently repeated,
and personal allusions, should be furnished with an Index _nominum
propriorum_, which would enable the reader to refer in a moment to the
exact whereabouts of the line wanted. I once took the trouble to make such
an Index to Pope for my own use, and add one word of it as a specimen:

  Granville's moving lays           _Past._ i.    46
  Granville commands, &c.           _Wind. For._   5
  Granville could refuse to sing,
  what Muse for                         "          6
  Granville sings, or is it             "        282
  Granville of a former age, Surrey
  the                                   "        292
  Granville's verse recite, the
  thoughts of God let                   "        425
  Granville's Myra die, till  _Epist. to Jervas_  76
  Granville the polite        _Prol. to Sat._    135

Is this a hint worthy the notice of Mr. Croker, Mr. P. Cunningham, or Mr.
John Murray, whose joint labours promise us a new edition of Pope?

V. Roscoe and Croly give _four_ poems on _Gulliver's Travels_. Why does Mr.
Carruthers leave out the _third_? His edition appears to contain (besides
many additions) all that all previous editors have admitted, with the
exception of this _third_ Gulliver poem, the sixteen additional verses to
Mrs. Blount on leaving town, the verses to Dr. Bolton, and a fragment of
eight lines (perhaps by Congreve); which last three are to be found in
Warton's edition.

HARRY LEROY TEMPLE.

Garrick Club.

[Footnote 3: These lines are quoted in the fourth edition of the _Ency.
Britan._, art. BONONCINI, and are said to have been written by Swift. Only
the last two lines, however, are given in Scott's edition of his
_Works_.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

HAMPSHIRE FOLK LORE.

_Churching._--A woman in this village, when going to church for the first
time after the birth of her child, keeps to the same side of the road, and
no persuasions or threats would induce her to cross it. She wears also upon
that occasion a pair of new boots or shoes, so that the mothers of large
families patronise greatly the disciples of St. Crispin. I should much like
to know if this twofold superstition is prevalent, and how it first
originated.

_Bees._--There is not one peasant I believe in this village, man or woman,
who would sell you a swarm of bees. To be guilty of selling bees is a
grievous omen indeed, than which nothing can be more dreadful. To barter
bees is quite a different matter. If you want a hive, you may easily obtain
it in lieu of a small pig, or some other equivalent. There may seem little
difference in the eyes of enlightened persons between selling, and
bartering, but the superstitious beekeeper sees a grand distinction, and it
is not his fault if you don't see it too.

When a hive swarms, it is customary to take the shovel from the grate, and
the key from the door, and to produce therewith a species of music which is
supposed to captivate and soothe the winged tribe. If the bees do not
settle on any neighbouring tree where they may have the full benefit of the
inharmonious music, they are generally assailed with stones. This is a
strange sort of proceeding, but it is orthodox, and there is nothing the
villagers despise more than modern innovations of whatever kind.

_Charming._--As regards charming, the wife of the village innkeeper who
preceded the present one (she now rests in the churchyard), used to whisper
away burns. Her form of words, if she had any, is unknown. The mind has
great influence upon the body, and the doctor knows it, or he would not
give his nervous lady patients so many boxes of bread pills, and sleeping
draughts in the shape of vials filled with savoury rum-punch. Doubtless
this good woman cured her patients by acting on their imaginations. If the
agency of imagination is an incorrect supposition, I see but one way of
accounting for the curative powers of whispering, namely, by means of
animal magnetism. I trust your medical readers do not question the curative
powers of animal magnetism in certain cases; if they do, I would recommend
them to read a work entitled _Human Magnetism, its Claim to Dispassionate
Inquiry_, by W. Newnham, Esq., M.R.S.L. It is published by John Churchill,
Princes Street, Soho.

EUSTACE W. JACOB.

Crawley.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MOST CURIOUS BOOK IN THE WORLD.

The following account of this truly wonderful specimen of human patience
and skill is from a rough copy that I took some years ago. I regret that I
cannot give any reference, as I made no note of my authority, which has now
escaped my {447} recollection. But that is of little consequence, as the
book is well known to bibliographists.

Perhaps the most singular bibliographic curiosity is that which belonged to
the family of the Prince de Ligne, and is now in France. It is entitled
_Liber Passionis Domini nostri Jesu Christi, cum Characteribus nulla
materia compositis_. This book is neither written nor printed! The whole
letters of the text are cut out of each folio upon the finest vellum; and
being interleaved with blue paper, is read as easily as the best print. The
labour and patience bestowed in its completion must have been excessive,
especially when the precision and minuteness of the letters are considered.
The general execution, in every respect, is indeed admirable; and the
vellum is of the most delicate and costly kind. Rodolphus II. of Germany
offered for it, in 1640, 11,000 ducats, which was probably equal to 60,000
at this day. The most remarkable circumstance connected with this literary
treasure is, that it bears the royal arms of England; but it cannot be
traced to have ever been in this country.

I now offer this notice, in the hope that the readers of "N. & Q." may
supply farther particulars; such as the time of its commencement or
completion, and also whether it is still in France. With respect to the
arms of England, which yet present a puzzle to all antiquaries, I beg to
submit a conjecture. I think it was intended as a present to our Henry
VIII., when he was in such high favour at Rome, for his _Defence of the
Seven Sacraments_, that Leo X. conferred on him the title of "Fidei
Defensor," and which all our sovereigns have subsequently retained. But
when he threw off the Papal authority, declared himself supreme head of the
Church, and proceeded to confiscate its property, the intention of
presentation was abandoned. This is at least plausible, as I do not mean
that it was _originally_ designed for a present to "bluff Harry," because
it was produced before he was born. But the arms were a work for any time;
and I think they were executed just before his rupture with the Pope was
known. To pay him a compliment afterwards from any part of Catholic Europe
was, of course, out of the question.

C. B. A.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Notes.

_Baptism, Marriage, and Crowning of Geo. III._--

    "Died at his palace at Lambeth, aged seventy-five, the Most Reverend
    Thomas Secker, LL.D., Lord Archbishop of Canterbury. His Grace was many
    years Prebendary of Durham, seventeen years Rector of St. James',
    Westminster, consecrated Bishop of Bristol in 1734, and in 1737 was
    translated to the See of Oxford. In 1750 he resigned the Rectory of St.
    James, on his succeeding Bishop Butler in the Deanery of St. Paul's;
    and on the death of Archbishop Hutton in 1758, was immediately
    nominated to the metropolitan see, and confirmed at Bow Church, on the
    20th of April in that year, Archbishop of Canterbury. His Grace was
    Rector of St. James's when our present sovereign was born at Norfolk
    House, and had the honour to baptize, to marry, and crown his majesty
    and his royal consort, and to baptize several of their majesties'
    children."--From _Pennsylvania Chronicle_, Oct. 3, 1768.

M. R. F.

Pennsylvania.

_Copernicus._--The inscription on the tomb of the celebrated Copernicus, in
the cathedral church at Thorn, in Prussian Poland, supposed to have been
written by himself, deserves a place in "N. & Q."

 "Non parem _Pauli_ gratiam requiro,
  Veniam _Petri_ neque posco; sed quam
  In crucis ligno dederat Latroni
            Sedulus oro."

FITZROY.

_First Instance of Bribery amongst Members of Parliament._--The following
extract from Parry's _Parliaments and Councils of England_, deserves, I
think, a corner in "N. & Q.," especially at the present day:

    "1571, A. R. 13, May 10.--Thomas Long, 'a very simple man and unfit' to
    serve, is questioned how he came to be elected. He confesses that he
    gave the Mayor of Westbury and another four pounds for his place in
    parliament. They are ordered to repay this sum, to appear to answer
    such things as should be objected against them in that house, and a
    fine of twenty pounds is to be assessed on the corporation and
    inhabitants of Westbury, for their scandalous attempt."

ABHBA.

_Richard Brinsley Sheridan._--In the "Life of Sheridan," by G. G. S.,
prefixed to his _Dramatic Works_, published by Bohn in 1848, is the
following passage (p. 90.):

    "At the age of twenty-nine he had achieved a brilliant reputation, _had
    gained an immense property_, and was apparently master of large
    resources."

And in an essay lately published, entitled _Richard Brinsley Sheridan_, by
George Gilfillan, is this statement:

    "Young Sheridan had no patrimony, _not a shilling_, indeed, _all his
    life that he could call his own_."

Which of these two contradictory accounts is true?

In the _Life_ by G. G. S. are two glaring slips of the pen or of the press;
at p. 8. it is said that Sheridan was born in the year 1771 (1751?), and at
p. 44. that _The Duenna_ was brought out on the 21st of November, 1755
(1775?).

WILLIAM DUANE.

Philadelphia.

{448}

_Publican's Invitation._--Amongst various other ingenious contrivances
adopted by the proprietors of the _rosoglio_ houses (anglicè, dram-shops)
in Valetta, to attract the custom and patronage of the gallant red-jackets
that swarm in our streets at this time, one individual has put forth and
distributed among the soldiers the following puzzle, which I send for the
amusement of your readers. A very little study will suffice to master the
mysterious document.

   "THE PUBLICAN'S INVITATION.
  Here's to Pand's Pen. DASOCI.
  Alhou Rinha? R. M. (Les Smirt)
  Ha! N. D. F. Unlet fri. Ends.
  HIPRE! ign. Beju! Standk.
  Indan! DEVIL'S PEAKO! F. N.
  (One.)"

JOHN O' THE FORD.

Malta.

_Bishop Burnet again!_--The following anecdote occurs in Mrs.
Thistlethwaite's _Memoirs and Correspondence of Dr. Henry Bathurst, Lord
Bishop of Norwich_, p. 7.:

    "I have heard my father mention the following anecdote of my
    grandfather, Benjamin Bathurst, Esq., and the Duke of Gloucester (Queen
    Anne's son), during their boyhood. My grandfather and the Duke were
    playfellows; and the Duke's tutor was Dr. Burnet. One day, when the
    Doctor went out of the room, the Duke having as usual courted him, and
    treated him with obsequious civility, young Bathurst expressed his
    surprise that his Royal Highness should treat a person, whom he
    disliked as much as he did the Doctor, with so much courtesy and
    kindness. The Duke replied, 'Do you think I have been so long a pupil
    of Dr. Burnet's without learning to be a hypocrite?'"

J. Y.

_Old Custom preserved in Warwickshire._--There is a large stone a few miles
from Dunchurch, in Warwickshire, called "The Knightlow Cross." Several of
Lord John Scott's tenants hold from him on the condition of laying their
rent before daybreak on Martinmas Day on this stone: if they fail to do so,
they forfeit to him as many pounds as they owe pence, or as many white
bulls with red tips to their ears and a red tip to their tail as they owe
pence, whichever he chooses to demand. This custom is still kept up, and
there is always hard riding to reach the stone before the sun rises on
Martinmas Day?

L. M. M. R.

_English Diplomacy_ v. _Russian_.--A friend of Sir Henry Wotton's being
designed for the employment of an ambassador, came to Eton, and requested
from him some experimental rules for his prudent and safe carriage in his
negociations; to whom he smilingly gave this for an infallible
aphorism,--that, to be in safety himself, and serviceable to his country,
he should always, and upon all occasions, speak the truth (it seems a state
paradox). "For," says Sir Henry Wotton, "_you shall never be believed_; and
by this means your truth will secure yourself, if you shall ever be called
to any account; and 'twill also put your adversaries (who will still hunt
counter) to a loss in all their disquisitions and undertakings." (_Reliquiæ
Wottonianæ_.)

ALPHA.

       *       *       *       *       *


Queries.

ANCIENT TENURE OF LANDS.

(Vol. ix., pp. 173. 309.)

The following paragraphs, containing both Notes and Queries, will doubtless
interest your readers

At the last Kent assizes held at Maidstone (March, 1854) a case was tried
by a special jury, of whom the writer was one, before Mr. Baron Parke;
plaintiffs, "the Earl of Romney and others," trustees under an act of
parliament to pay the debts of the borough of Queenborough, county Kent;
defendants, "the Inclosure Commissioners of England and Wales." Tradition
relates that Edward III. was so pleased with his construction of the Castle
of Queenborough, that he complimented his consort by not only building a
town, but creating a borough[4], which he named after her honour.[5] The
case, in various shapes, has been before the law courts for some time, and
was sent to these Kent assizes to ascertain whether Queenborough was either
a manor or a reputed manor. In the course of the trial Baron Parke said,
that, in despite of the statute _Quia Emptores_, he should rule that manors
could be created when they contained the essentials.

My first Query is, therefore, Have any manors been created in England since
the passing of that statute? In my _History of Deptford_ I have alluded to
the manor of Hatcham as one of the last manors I supposed to have been
created.

The Inclosure Commissioners, as the defendants, had been prayed by the
Leeze-holders[6] of {449} Queenborough to inclose sundry lands called
Queenborough Common; such inclosure was opposed by the trustees, who
claimed under the act of parliament which constituted their existence to be
in the position of the mayor[7], &c., and thus, if they were the lords of
the manor, to have a veto upon the inclosure of the waste. The plaintiffs
relied very much upon the following fact, which I here embalm as a _note_,
and append thereon a _query_:--During the Mayoralty of Mr. Greet[8], a
gentleman who died in 1829, a turbot was caught by a dredger on the
Queenborough oyster-grounds: this unlucky fish was immediately pounced upon
by the Queenborough officials, and seized for the mayor's behoof as his
perquisite, _à la_ sturgeon.

Query, a like instance?

The Jury, after two days' long sitting, decided that Queenborough was
neither a manor nor a reputed manor.

A. J. DUNKIN.

Dartford.

[Footnote 4: _Parliamentary History_, 1765.--On Wednesday, Dec. 6, 1654, an
attempt was made to disfranchise Queenborough: the then member, Mr.
Garland, suddenly and jocularly moved the Speaker that we give not any
legacies before the Speaker was dead. This pleasant conceit so took with
the House, as, for that time, Queenborough was reprieved, but was voted for
the future to be dismembered, and to be added to the county.--Ap. Burton i.
cxi. _Archæological Mine_, i. 12. Queenborough was one of the victims
included in Schedule A of the act of parliament known as "The Reform
Bill."]

[Footnote 5: In our own day Cove has been called Queenstown in honour of
Queen Victoria.]

[Footnote 6: _Leeze-holders_, a right of turning on the coming or Leeze
(_Celtic_, Leswes) twenty-four sheep, which of late years, by a bye-law,
has been arranged to substitute either two horses or three bullocks. A
Leeze is supposed to contain about seven acres of land of herbage. The
common consists of about 240 acres, including roads.]

[Footnote 7: See Hogarth's Visit, &c. to Queenborough. A hearty laugh will
repay the trouble. The mayor was then a thatcher: the room remains as it
did in Hogarth's day; and as Queenborough was then, so it is now, one long
street without any trade.]

[Footnote 8: Of Mr. Greet's mayoralty many humorous tales are told: he was
at times popular, but towards the close of his reign most decidedly the
reverse. At his funeral the dredgers, &c. threw halfpence into his grave to
pay his passage to the lower regions. He, one day, _ex officio_, sentenced
a pilferer to a flogging at the cart's tail, and as executioners did not
volunteer, he took off his coat, and himself applied the cat to the bare
back of the culprit from one end of the street to the other. Mr. Greet was
one of the best friends Queenborough ever had. After his death it plunged
deeply into debt, had its paraphernalia and books seized and sold by the
sheriff, and now all its property is in the hands of trustees to pay its
debts, whilst its poor-rates are, a witness, a late mayor said, nine
shillings in the pound. The debt was originally 12,700l.; but as no
interest has been paid thereon, it is now 17,000l. The trustees have
received about 4,000_l_., but this sum has been melted in subsequent
litigation; for Queenborough men are mightily fond of supporting the law
courts.]

       *       *       *       *       *

OWEN ROWE THE REGICIDE.

Mark Noble, in his _Lives of the Regicides_, says that Owen Rowe was
descended from Sir Thomas Rowe, Lord Mayor of London in 1568. In the
Additional Manuscripts (British Museum), 6337. p. 52., is a coat in trick:
Argent, on a chevron azure, three bezants between three trefoils per pale
gules and vert, a martlet sable for difference; crest, a roe's head couped
gules, attired or, rising from a wreath; and beneath is written, "Coll.
Row, Coll. of hors and futt." These arms I imagine to have been the
regicide's. If so, he was a fourth son. Query, whose? The Hackney Parish
Register records, that on Nov. 6, 1655, Captain Henry Rowe was buried from
Mr. Simon Corbet's, of Mare Street, Hackney. How was he related to Colonel
Owen Rowe? I should feel particularly obliged to any correspondent who
could furnish me with his descent from Sir Thos. Rowe.

According to Mr. Lysons (_Environs of London_, vol. iv. p. 540.), the
daughter of Mr. Rowland Wilson, and widow of Dr. Crisp, married Colonel
Rowe; adding in a note, that he _supposes_ this Colonel Rowe to have been
Colonel Owen Rowe, the regicide. The same statement is found in Hasted's
_History of Kent_ (edit. 1778), vol. i. p. 181. I should be glad of some
more certain information on this point; also, what issue Owen Rowe left, if
any, besides two daughters, whose marriages are recorded in the Hackney
Register.

I am likewise anxious to learn whether there exist any lineal descendants
of this family of Rowe, which had its origin in Kent; and thence branching
off in the sixteenth century, settled and obtained large possessions in
Shacklewell, Walthamstow, Low Layton, Higham Hill, and Muswell Hill.
Through females, several of our nobility are descended from them.

TEE BEE.

       *       *       *       *       *

WRITINGS OF THE MARTYR BRADFORD.

The second and concluding volume of Bradford's writings, which I am editing
for the Parker Society, is about to be concluded.

Bradford's _Treatise against the Fear of Death, with Sweet Meditations on
the Felicity of the Life to Come and the Kingdom of Christ_, was printed by
Powell without a date, by Singleton without a date, and by Wolf 1583,--the
last two editions being mentioned by Herbert, the first of Powell by Dibdin
from Herbert's MS. additions. If any of your readers could inform me where
a copy of any one of these editions is to be found, it would greatly
oblige.

I have also never met, after some years' inquiry, with the edition of
Bradford's _Letter on the Mass_, printed by Waldegrave, Edinburgh.

Some of the early editions of Bradford's writings are very rare. I possess
his _Examinations_, Griffith, 1561; and _Meditations_, Hall, 1562; both of
which are scarce: as also the only copy I have ever seen (though imperfect)
of the first edition of his _Sermon on Repentance_, evidently printed in
1553.

His _Complaint of Verity_ is of extraordinary rarity. The only copy I am
aware of is possessed {450} by the Rev. T. Corser, of Stand, Manchester;
and was purchased (I believe) at Mr. Bright's sale for 17l.

I should be obliged to any one who would supply me with any information
about early editions of Bradford's writings.

Every one is familiar with the story that Bradford, on seeing a criminal
pass to execution, said, "There goes John Bradford but for the grace of
God." Can any one inform me of any early printed authority for that story?

A. TOWNSEND.

Weston Lane, Bath.

    [In the British Museum are the following works by John Bradford, bound
    in one volume, press-mark 3932, c.:--_The Hvrte of Hering Masse_; also
    Two Notable Sermons, the one of _Repentance_, and the other of the
    _Lord's Supper_, Lond. 1581. On the fly-leaf is written, "A copy of
    Bradford's _Hurte of Hearyng Masse_, printed for H. Kirham, 1596,
    B. L., was in Mr. Jolley's sale, Feb. 1843. This edition by William
    Copland for William Martyne without date is scarcer, and I believe
    earlier.--R. H. BARHAM."]

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries.

_Courtney Family._--I throw an apple of discord to your heraldic,
genealogical, and antiquarian, readers. Was there originally more than one
family of Courtnay, Courtney, Courtenay, Courteney, Courtnaye, Courtenaye,
&c. Which is right, and when did the family commence in England, and how
branch off? If your readers can give no information, who can?

S. A.

Oxford.

"_The Shipwrecked Lovers._"--Can you give me any account of the following
tragedy, where the scene of it is laid, &c.? It is printed along with some
poems, and appears never to have been acted. The name of the piece is _The
Shipwrecked Lovers_, a tragedy in five acts, by James Templeton, Dublin,
12mo., 1801. I regret that I am unable to give any account of the author,
but perhaps some of your Irish readers may be able to do this.

SIGMA.

_Sir John Bingham._--In Burke's _Peerage and Baronetage_, article "Lucan,"
it is stated that this gentlemen was high in rank in King James's army at
the battle of Aughrim, and turned the fortune of the day in favour of
William by deserting, with his whole command, at the crisis of the battle.
A late number of the _Dublin University Magazine_ repeats this story on the
authority of Mr. Burke, and it would therefore be satisfactory to know
where the latter found a statement affecting so much the honour of the
family in question, one of the first in my native county. The dates of Sir
John's birth and marriage are not given, but the ages of several of his
children are known, and from them it follows that, supposing the father of
the first Lord Lucan not to have married till the mature age of fifty-five
or sixty, he was barely of age at the time of the battle, therefore not
likely to have been high in command. My countrymen are too much inclined,
like the French, to attribute their disasters to treachery, or to any cause
but the equal numbers and courage, and superior discipline, of their
adversaries: but they have never done so to less purpose than when they
ascribe the loss of that battle to a man who was in all probability not
born in 1691, and must in any case have been a mere boy at the time. No
peerage that I have met with gives the date of his birth, which would at
once settle the question. It seems most unlikely, if such were actually the
case, that the family, on attaining the peerage, should have revived the
title of the gallant Sarsfield (whose representatives they were), and thus
challenged public attention, always on the alert on such points in Ireland,
to their alleged dishonour and betrayal of the cause for which he fought
and fell.

J. S. WARDEN.

_Proclamation for making Mustard._--Did Queen Elizabeth issue a
proclamation for "the right of making mustard?" And if so, what was the
language of such proclamation?

AN ADMIRER.

_Judges practicing at the Bar._--A curious disquisition has run through "N.
& Q." on the relinquishment of their sees by bishops, but I do not see that
any of them are shown to have officiated as parish priests after quitting
the episcopate.

Not that this is the point I wish now to put before you and your readers,
but I want information on a somewhat kindred subject.

In Craik's _Romance of the Peerage_ there occurs:

    "Percy's leading counsel upon this occasion was Mr. Sergeant
    (afterwards Sir Francis) Pemberton, who subsequently rose to be first a
    puisne judge, and then Chief Justice of the King's Bench, was thence
    transferred to the Chief Justiceship of the Common Pleas, and after all
    ended his days a practitioner at the bar."--Vol. iv. p. 291. note.

Pemberton, it appears, was dismissed from the Common Pleas in 1683; he was
counsel for the seven bishops in 1688, as was also another displaced judge,
Sir Creswell Leving, or Levinge, who was superseded in 1686.

Are these the only two instances of judges, _qui olim fuere_, practising at
the bar? If not, are they the latest? And farther, if not the latest, does
not etiquette forbid such practice now?

W. T. M.

Hong Kong.

_Celebrated Wagers._--I should be glad if any correspondent will point out
any remarkable {451} instances of the above. The ordinary channels for
obtaining such information I am of course acquainted with.

C. CLIFTON BARRY.

"_Pay me tribute, or else_----."--In Mr. Bunn's late work, _Old England and
New England_, I find this note:

    "We all remember the haughty message of the ruler of a certain province
    to the governor of a neighbouring one, 'Pay me tribute, or else----;'
    and the appropriate reply, 'I owe you none, and if----.'"

Not being of the totality reminiscent, may I beg for enlightenment? The
anecdote sounds well, and I am therefore curious to know who the governors
and what the provinces?

W. T. M.

Hong Kong.

"_A regular Turk._"--We often hear of people bad to manage being "regular
Turks." When did the phrase originate? Though not a journal for politics,
"N. & Q." will no doubt breathe a wish for the present sultan to be, in the
approaching warfare, "a regular Turk."

PRESTONIENSIS.

_Benjamin Rush._--I found the following in an old paper:

    "Edinburgh, June 14, 1768. Yesterday Benjamin Rush, of the city of
    Philadelphia, A. M., and Gustavus Richard Brown, of Maryland, were
    admitted to the honour of a degree of Doctors of Physic, in the
    university of this place, after having undergone the usual
    examinations, both private and public. The former of whom was also
    presented some time before with the freedom of this city."

The Benjamin Rush here referred to subsequently became quite eminent as a
physician. He took an active part in the struggle between the American
colonies and the mother country, and was one of the signers of the
Declaration of Independence. One of his sons was the American minister to
London a few years since.

Can any of your readers inform me why the freedom of Edinburgh was
conferred upon him? In 1768 he could not have been over twenty-five years
of age.

INQUIRER.

_Per Centum Sign._--Will you kindly inform me why the symbol % means per
centum: viz. 5 %, 10 %, &c.?

JAMES MILLS.

_Burial Service Tradition._--About forty years ago, a young man hung
himself. When his body was taken to the church for interment, the clergymen
refused reading the burial service over him; his friends took him to
another parish, and the clergyman of that place refused also; they then
removed him to an adjoining one, and the clergyman received him and buried
him. The last clergyman said, if any friend of the deceased had cut off his
right hand, and laid it outside the coffin, no clergyman then could refuse
legally receiving and burying the corpse. Query, is this true?

May I ask your readers for an answer, as it will oblige many friends. The
above happened in Derbyshire.

S. ADAMS, Curate.

_Jean Bart's Descent on Newcastle._--I find no notice, either in Sykes's
_Local Records_, or in Richardson's _Local Historian's Table-book_, of the
descent made on Newcastle in 1694 by the celebrated Jean Bart, whom the
Dutch nicknamed "De Fransch Duyvel." Somewhere or other I have seen it
stated that he returned to France with an immense booty. Perhaps some of
your north country correspondents can tell us whether any record of his
visit exists in the archives of the corporation of Newcastle or elsewhere?

WILLIAM BROCKIE.

Russell Street, South Shields.

_Madame de Staël._--In _Three Months in Northern Germany_, p. 151., 1817,
the following, passage occurs among some corrections of the mistakes of
Madame de Staël:

    "She knew the language imperfectly, read little, and misrepresented the
    gossip which she heard, either from carelessness or misunderstanding.
    When she censures Fichte, who she says had received no provocation from
    Nicolai, for helping Schlegel to write a dull book against him when he
    was too old to reply, she must have been ignorant of the fact, that
    Nicolai lived and wrote many years after the publication; and that,
    whether provoked or not, it is far from dull."

I cannot find any mention of this dispute in Madame de Staël's _De
l'Allemagne_, and shall be glad if any of your readers can direct me to the
passage in her works, and also to the joint work of Schlegel and Fichte.

R. A.

Ox. and C. Club.

_Honoria, Daughter of Lord Denny._--I should be extremely obliged to any of
your correspondents if they could give me the date of the death of Honoria,
daughter and heiress of Edward, Lord Denny, who was married to James Hay,
afterwards Earl Carlisle, on the 6th of January, 1607. She had issue James,
second Earl of Carlisle, who died in 1660. As James Hay, then Baron Hay of
Sawley, married his second wife (Lucy, daughter of Henry, Earl of
Northumberland) in November 1617, the time of the first Lady Hay's death is
fixed between 1607 and 1617.

AUGUSTUS JESSOPP.

N.B.--"Bis dat qui cito dat."

Rectory, Papworth St. Agnes.

_Hospital of John of Jerusalem._--Is there any book or manuscript relating
to the proceedings of the Hospital of St. John of Jerusalem in England,
{452} which enters so fully into particulars as to give the names of the
members of the society and its officers about the year 1300?

C. F. K.

_Heiress of Haddon Hall._--Any one who visits Haddon Hall in Derbyshire,
the property of the Duke of Rutland, is shown a doorway, through which the
heiress to this baronial mansion eloped with (I think) a Cavendish some
centuries ago. I have been informed that in a recent restoration of
Bakewell Church, which is near Haddon Hall, the vault which contained the
remains of this lady and her family was accidentally broken into, and that
the bodies of herself, her husband, and some children, were found
decapitated, with their heads under their arms; moreover, that in all the
coffins there were dice. My informant had read an authenticated account of
this curious circumstance, which was drawn up at the time of the discovery,
but he could not refer me to it, and it is very possible that either his
memory or mind may have failed as to the exact facts. At any rate they are
worth embalming, I think, in the pages of "N. & Q." if any correspondent
will kindly supply both "chapter and verse."

ALFRED GATTY.

_Monteith._--There is a peculiar style of silver bowl, of about the time of
Queen Anne, which is called a Monteith. Why is it so designated? and to
what particular use was it generally applied?

P.

_Vandyking._--In a letter from Secretary Windebanke to the Lord Deputy
Wentworth (_Strafford Papers_, vol. i. p. 161.), P. C. S. S. notices this
phrase, "Pardon, I beseech your lordship the over-free censure of your
_Vandyking_." What is the meaning of this term, which P. C. S. S. does not
find in any other writing of the period? Had the _costume_, so usual in the
portraits by Vandyke, become proverbial so early as 1633, the date of
Windebanke's letter?

P. C. S. S.

_Hiel the Bethelite._--What is the meaning of the 34th verse of the 16th
chapter of the 1st Book of Kings? In one of Huddlestone's notes to Toland's
_History of the Druids_, he quotes the acts of Hiel the Bethelite, therein
mentioned, as an instance of the Druidical Custom of burying a man alive
under the foundations of any building which was to be undertaken?

L. M. M. R.

_Earl of Glencairn._--Could you or any of your readers inform me of any
particulars concerning the Earl of Glencairn, who, with a sister, is said
to have fled from Scotland about 1700, or rather later, and to have
concealed himself in Devonshire, where his sister married, 1712, one John
Lethbridge, and had issue? Was this sister called Grace? Within late years
they were spoken of by the very old inhabitants of Okehampton, Devon, and
stories of the coroneted clothes, &c. were current.

LODBROK.

_Willow Bark in Ague._--I have seen recently some notices of the use of
willow bark in ague. Will some kind correspondent inform me and others
interested in the subject, where the information is to be found?

E. C.

_"Perturbabantur," &c._--Can any of your readers give the whole of the
poem, of which the first two lines are--

 "Perturbabantur Constantinopolitani,
  Innumerabilibus sollicitudinibus"?

These lines are singularly applicable at the present moment.

I am also desirous of knowing the history of this poem.

P.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries with Answers.

_Seamen's Tickets._--From an old paper, 1768:

    "Feb. 8. Died at her house in Chapel Street, near Ratcliff Highway,
    aged 95, Margaret McKennow, who kept a lodging-house in that
    neighbourhood many years, and dealt in seamen's tickets. She is said to
    have died worth upwards of 6000l., and just after she expired
    twenty-nine quarter guineas were found in her mouth."

What are seamen's tickets?

W. D. R.

Philadelphia.

    [The system of paying seamen with tickets instead of cash caused great
    discontent during the reign of Charles II., and, from the frequent
    notices respecting it in Pepys's _Diary_, seems to have given our
    Diarist great trouble. On November 30, 1660, he says: "Sir G. Carteret
    did give us an account how Mr. Holland do intend to prevail with the
    parliament to try his project of discharging the seamen all at present
    by ticket, and so promise interest to all men that will lend money upon
    them at eight per cent. for so long as they are unpaid, whereby he do
    think to take away the growing debt which do now lie upon the kingdom
    for lack of present money to discharge the seamen." These tickets the
    poor fellows sold at half price to usurers, mostly Jews; and to so
    great an extent was the system carried, that in the year 1710 there was
    a floating debt due to these usurers of ten millions paid by Harley
    from a fictitious fund formed by the government.]

_Bruce, Robert._--Can you tell me the name of the author of the following
little work? It is small, and contains 342 pages, and is entitled:

    "The Acts and Life of the most Victorious Conqueror Robert Bruce, King
    of Scotland. Wherein also are contained the Martial Deeds of the
    Valiant Princes Edward Bruce, Sir James Douglas, Earl Thomas Randal,
    Walter Stewart, and sundry others. To which is added a Glossary,
    explaining the difficult {453} Words contained in this Book, and that
    of Wallace. Glasgow: printed by Mr. A. Carmichael and A. Miller.
    MDCCXXXVII."

JAMES P. BRYCE.

    [This work is by John Barbour (sometimes written Barber, Barbere, and
    Barbare), an eminent Scottish metrical historian. It has been said that
    he received his education at the Abbey of Aberbrothock, where he took
    orders, and obtained a living near Aberdeen. Dr. Henry supposes Barbour
    to have become Archdeacon of Aberdeen in 1356. It is probable he died
    towards the close of 1395. His poem has passed through several
    editions, and is considered of high historical value. The earlier
    editions are those of Edinburgh, 1616, 1670, 12mo. In 1790, Pinkerton
    published "the first genuine edition from a MS. dated 1489, with notes
    and a Glossary." The best edition, however, is that by Dr. Jamieson,
    with Notes, and Life of the Author, Edinb. 4to. 1820.]

_Coronation Custom._--At the coronations of Henry IV. and Richard III. a
ceremony was performed which seems to indicate some idea of the elective
sovereignty in England. The archbishop stood at each of the four corners of
the dais in succession, and asked from thence the consent of the assembled
Commons (Heylin, _Reform._, 1st edit., p. 32.). Did this ever take place at
the coronation of English monarchs whose succession was not disputed?

J. H. B.

    [In after times this ceremony seems to be that called "The
    Recognition." Sandford, speaking of the coronation of James II., says,
    "The Archbishop of Canterbury standing near the king, on the east side
    of the theatre, his majesty, attended as before, rose out of his chair,
    and stood before it, whilst the archbishop, having his face to the
    east, said as follows: 'Sirs. I here present unto you King James, the
    rightful inheritor of the crown of this realm; wherefore all ye that
    are come this day to do your homage, service, and bounden duty, are ye
    willing to do the same?' From thence the said archbishop, accompanied
    with the lord keeper, the lord great chamberlain, the lord high
    constable, and the earl marshal (garter king of arms going before
    them), proceeded to the south side of the theatre, and repeated the
    same words; and from thence to the west, and lastly to the north side
    of the theatre, in like manner: the king standing all this while by his
    chair of state, toward the east side of the theatre, and turning his
    face to the several sides of the theatre, at such time as the
    archbishop at every of them spake to the people. At every of which the
    people signified their willingness and joy by loud acclamations."]

_William Warner._--Where can any account be found of Warner the poet, the
author of _Albion's England_?

I. R. R.

    [Some account of William Warner will be found in Wood's _Athenæ
    Oxonienses_. vol. i. pp., 765-773. (Bliss); also in Percy's _Reliques
    of Ancient English Poetry_, vol. ii. p. 261., edit. 1812. From the
    register of Amwell, in Herts, it appears that he died there March 9,
    1608-9, "soddenly in the night in his bedde, without any former
    complaint or sicknesse;" and that he was "a man of good yeares and
    honest reputation; by his profession an attorney at the Common
    Please."--Scott's _Amwell_, p. 22. note.]

"_Isle of Beauty._"--Who was the author of "Isle of Beauty?" I always
thought Thomas Haynes Bayly, but some say Lord Byron. Not knowing Mrs.
Bayly's immediate address, I send this Query. I much regret not asking her
when I sent my volume of poems, with view of poor Bayly's Grove,
Cheltenham.

L. M. THORNTON.

14. Philip Street, Bath.

    [The "Isle of Beauty" is by Thomas Haynes Bayly, and is given among his
    _Songs, Ballads, and other Poems_, edited by his widow, vol. i. p. 182.
    edit. 1844.]

_Edmund Lodge._--Can you give me the date of the death of Edmund Lodge, the
herald? I suppose there will be some account of him in the Obituary of the
_Gentleman's Magazine_, to which I wish to refer. Was he a descendant of
the Rev. Edmund Lodge, the predecessor of Dawes in the Mastership of Queen
Elizabeth's Grammar School at Newcastle-upon-Tyne?

E. H. A.

    [Edmund Lodge died January 16, 1839. An account of him is given in the
    _Gentleman's Magazine_ for April, 1839, p. 433.]

_King John._--Baines, in his _History of Liverpool_, p. 77., says King John
"was at Lancaster on the 26th February 1206, and at Chester on the 28th
February following." What route did he take from the first to the
second-named town, and what was the object of his visit?

PRESTONIENSIS.

    [Upon reference to the Introduction to the _Patent Rolls_, it appears
    that John was at Lancaster from Monday the 21st to Sunday 27th, from
    Monday 28th to Wednesday 1st March at Chester, on Thursday 2nd at
    Middlewich, Friday the 3rd at Newcastle-under-Lyne, and from the 4th to
    the 8th at Milburn.]

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies.

HAS EXECUTION BY HANGING BEEN SURVIVED?

(Vol. ix., pp. 174. 280.)

The copious Notes of your correspondents on this subject have only left the
opportunity for a few stray gleanings in the field of their researches,
which may, however, not prove uninteresting.

The compiler of a curious 12mo. (_A Memorial for the Learned_, by J. D.,
Gent., London, 1686) records, among "Notable Events in the Reign of Henry
VI.," that,--

    "Soon after the good Duke of Gloucester was secretly murthered, five of
    his menial servants, viz. Sir Roger Chamberlain, Knt., Middleton,
    Herber, {454} Artzis, Esq., and John Needham, Gent., were condemned to
    be hanged, drawn, and quartered; and hanged they were at Tyburn, let
    down quick, stript naked, marked with a knife to be quartered; and then
    the Marquess of Suffolk brought their pardon, and delivered it at the
    place of execution, and so their lives were saved."--P. 77.

The following document from the Patent Rolls of the forty-eighth year of
the reign of King Henry III. (skin 5.) affords conclusive evidence of the
affirmative:

    "Rex omnibus, etc. salutem. Quia Inetta de Balsham pro receptamento
    latronum et imposito nuper per considerationem curie nostre suspendio
    adjudicata, et ab horâ nonâ diei Iune usque post ortum solis diei
    martis sequen. suspensa, viva evasit, sicut ex testimonio fide dignorum
    accipimus. Nos, divinæ charitatis intuitu, pardonavimus eidem Inetta
    sectam pacis nostre que ad nos pertinet pro receptamento predicto, et
    firmam pacem nostrum ei inde concedimus. In cujus, etc. Teste Rege apud
    Cantuar. XVI^o. die Augusti.

    "Convenit cum recordo LAUR. HALSTED, Deput. Algern. May. mil."

Plot, in his _Natural History of Staffordshire_, p. 292., quotes this
pardon, and suggests that possibly

    "She could not be hanged, upon account that the larynx, or upper part
    of her windpipe, was turned to bone, as Fallopius (_Oper._, tom. i.,
    _Obs. Anat._, tract. 6.) tells us he has sometimes found it, which
    possibly might be so strong, that the weight of her body could not
    compress it, as it happened in the case of a Swiss, who, as I am told
    by the Rev. Mr. Obadiah Walker, Master of University College, was
    attempted to be hanged no less than thirteen times, yet lived
    notwithstanding, by the benefit of his windpipe, that after his death
    was found to have turned into a bone; which yet is still wonderful,
    since the circulation of the blood must be stopt, however, unless his
    veins and arteries were likewise turned to bone, or the rope not slipt
    close."

Besides the account of Anne Green, Denham, in the 4th book of his
_Physico-Theology_, quotes the following instance from Rechelin (_De Aere
et Alim. defect._, cap. vii.),--

    "Of a certain woman hang'd, and in all appearance dead, who was
    nevertheless restored to life by a physician accidentally coming in,
    and ordering a plentiful administration of the spirit of sal ammoniac."

(See also _The Uncertainty of the Signs of Death, and the Danger of
precipitate Interments and Dissections demonstrated_, 12mo., London, 1751.)

A paragraph, stating that Fauntleroy, the notorious forger, had survived
his execution, and was living abroad, has more than once gone the round of
the newspapers. It is sometimes added that his evidence was required in a
Chancery suit,--absurdly enough, as, if not _actually_, he was at least
_legally_ dead.

The story of Brodie, executed October, 1788, for an excise robbery at
Edinburgh, is probably familiar to most. The self-possession and firmness
with which he met his fate was the result of a belief in the possibility of
his resuscitation:

    "It is a curious fact, that an attempt was made to resuscitate Brodie
    immediately after the execution. The operator was Degravers, whom
    Brodie himself had employed. His efforts, however, were utterly
    abortive. A person who witnessed the scene, accounted for the failure
    by saying that the hangman, having been bargained with for a short
    fall, his excess of caution made him shorten the rope too much at
    first, and when he afterwards lengthened it, he made it too long, which
    consequently proved fatal to the experiment."--_Curiosities of
    Biography_, 8vo., Glasgow, 1845.

There is a powerfully-written story in _Blackwood's Magazine_, April, 1827,
entitled "Le Revenant," in which a resuscitated felon is supposed to
describe his feelings and experience. The author, in his motto, makes a
sweeping division of mankind:--"There are but two classes in the
world--those who are _hanged_, and those who are _not hanged_; and it has
been my lot to belong to the former." Many well-authenticated cases might
still be adduced; but enough at least has now probably been said upon the
subject, to show the possibility of surviving the tender mercies of
Professor Calcraft and his fraternity.

WILLIAM BATES.

Birmingham.

In Atkinson's _Medical Bibliography_, A. and B., under the head "Bathurst
Rodolphus," is the following:

    "Nuremberg, 4to., 1655. On a maid who recovered after being hanged.

    "This is the remarkable case of Elizabeth Gren, whom Bathurst and Dr.
    Willis restored after being executed, _i. e._ hanged, for infanticide.
    'Vena incisa refocillata est.'

    "These poor creatures are seldom considered as maids, after being
    hanged for infanticide. A similar recovery also happened to a man who
    had been executed for murder at York. My father had the body for public
    dissection. Whether the law then required the body to be hung for one
    hour or not, I cannot say; but I well remember my father's observation,
    that it was a pity the wretch had ever been restored, as his morals
    were by no means improved. Hanging is therefore by no means a cure for
    immorality, and it will be needless (in any of us) trying the
    experiment'--P. 255.

H. J.

Sheffield.

There is a record of a person being alive immediately after hanging, in the
_Local Historian's Table-book_, vol. ii. pp. 43, 44., and under the date
May 23, 1752. It is there stated, Ewan Macdonald, a recruit in General
Guise's regiment of {455} Highlanders, then quartered in
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, murdered a cooper named Parker, and was executed on
September 28, pursuant to his sentence. He was only nineteen years of age,
and at the gallows endeavoured to throw the executioner off the ladder. The
statement concludes with--"his body was taken to the surgeons' hall and
there dissected;" and the following is appended as a foot-note:

    "It was said that, after the body was taken to the surgeons' hall, and
    placed ready for dissection, the surgeons were called to attend a case
    at the infirmary, who, on their return, found Macdonald so far
    recovered as to be sitting up. He immediately begged for mercy; but a
    young surgeon, not wishing to be disappointed of the dissection, seized
    a wooden mall, with which he deprived him of life. It was farther
    reported, as the just vengeance of God, that this young man was soon
    after killed in the stable by his own horse. They used to show a mall
    at the surgeons' hall, as the identical one used by the surgeon."

ROBERT S. SALMON.

Newcastle-on-Tyne.

The case of Anne Green is attested by a _third_ witness:

    "In December, 1650, he was one of the persons concerned in recovering
    Anne Green to life, who was hanged at Oxford on the 14th, for the
    supposed murther of her bastard child."--"Memoir of Sir William Petty,
    Knt.," prefixed to _Several Essays on Political Arithmetic_, p. 3., 4th
    edit., London, 1755.

CPL.

       *       *       *       *       *

COLERIDGE'S CHRISTABEL.

(Vol. vii., pp. 206. 292; Vol. viii., pp. 11. 111.)

MR. J. S. WARDEN might well express astonishment at the rash and groundless
statement in "Blackwood" (Dec. 1839), that the third part of Christabel
which Dr. Maginn sent to that magazine in 1820 "perplexed the public, _and
pleased even Coleridge_." How far the "discerning public" were imposed upon
I know not; the following extract will show how far the poet-philosopher
was "pleased" with the parody.

    "If I should finish 'Christabel,' I shall certainly extend it, and give
    new characters, and a greater number of incidents. This the 'reading
    public' require, and this is the reason that Sir Walter Scott's poems,
    though so loosely written, are pleasing, and interest us by their
    picturesqueness. If a genial recurrence of the ray divine should occur
    for a few weeks, I shall certainly attempt it. I had the whole of the
    two cantos in my mind before I began it; certainly the first canto is
    more perfect, has more of the true wild weird spirit than the last. I
    laughed heartily at the continuation in 'Blackwood,' which I have been
    told is by Maginn. It is in appearance, and in appearance _only_, a
    good imitation. I do not doubt but that it gave more pleasure, and to a
    greater number, than a continuation by myself in the spirit of the two
    first (_sic_) cantos (_qu._ would give)."--_Letters, &c._, Moxon, 1836,
    vol. i. pp. 94-5.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

       *       *       *       *       *

GENERAL WHITELOCKE.

(Vol. ix., p. 201.)

General Whitelocke being on a visit to Aboyne Castle, in this county, the
seat of the late Marquis of Huntley, then Earl of Aboyne, and a public
market being held in the neighbourhood, the Earl, the General, and some
other visitors, were seen sauntering amongst the cattle and the tents of
the fair. Amongst the attenders of the country markets at that period was a
woman of the name of Tibby Masson, well known in this city for her
masculine character and deeds of fearlessness. Tibby had accompanied her
husband, who was a soldier, to South America; and, along with him, had been
present at the unfortunate siege of Buenos Ayres; and, as a trophy of her
valour, she brought with her an enormous-sized silver watch, which she
declared she had taken from the person of a Spanish officer who lay wounded
in the neighbourhood of the city after the engagement. Tibby was standing
by her "sweetie" (confectionary) stall in the Aboyne Market when the Earl
and Whitelocke, and the other gentlemen, were passing, and she at once
recognised her old commander. They stopped, and the General tasted some of
her "sweeties," and saucily declared that they were abominably bad. Upon
which Tibby immediately retorted: "They are a great deal better than the
timmer (wooden) flints that you gave our soldiers at Bonny's Airs." On
hearing this, the consternation of Whitelocke and his friends can more
easily be imagined than described. They all fled from the field with the
utmost rapidity, leaving Tibby completely victorious; and the General, so
far as is known, never again visited Aberdeenshire.

B. B.

Aberdeen.

I have not access to a file of newspapers, but have been frequently told by
an old pensioner, who served under General Whitelocke: "We marched into
_Bowsan Arrys_ (as he pronounced Buenos Ayres) without ere a flint in our
muskets."

L. G.

The subjoined charade, which I have seen years ago, is perhaps preferable:

 "My first is an emblem of purity,
  My next against knaves a security;
    My whole is a shame
    To an Englishman's name
  And branded will be to futurity."

{456}

I have also seen a sort of parody upon the above applied to Waterloo:

 "My first, tho' it's clear,
    Will oft troubl'd appear,
  My next's an amusement so clever;
    My whole is a name,
    Recorded by fame,
  To the glory of England for ever."

M. J. C.

If the _jeu d'esprit_ on the above name be worthy of preservation, the more
correct version of it is as follows:

 "My first is the emblem of purity,
  My second is used for security;
    My whole is a name,
    Which, if I had the same,
  I should blush to hand down to futurity."

The authorship was ascribed (I believe with truth) to a lady of the name of
Belson.

M. (2)

The following is the correct version:

 "My first is an emblem of purity,
  My second the means of security;
    My whole is a name,
    Which, if mine were the same,
  I should blush to hand down to futurity."

N. L. J.

General Whitelocke died at Clifton, in his house in Princes Buildings.

ANON.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

_Gravelly Wax Negatives._--The only remedy I am acquainted with is to use
the paper within twenty-four hours after excitement. I have tried the
methods of Messrs. Crookes, Fenton, and How; in every case I was equally
annoyed with gravel, if excited beyond that time; in fact, I believe all
the good wax negatives have been taken within twelve hours. The Rev. Wm.
Collings, who has produced such excellent wax negatives, 24 in. × 18
(several were sent to the late Exhibition of the Photographic Society),
informs me the above is quite his experience, and that he excites his
papers for the day early in the morning. The cause lies, I believe, in the
fault of homogeneity of the waxed paper, arising from unevenness in the
structure of the paper exaggerated by the transparency of the wax, partly,
perhaps, from a semi-crystallizing of the wax in cooling, and also from its
being adulterated with tallow, resin, &c. As a consequence of this, the
paper is filled with innumerable hard points; the iodizing and exciting
solutions are unequally absorbed, and the actinic influence acting more on
the weak points, produces under gallic acid a speckled appearance, if
decomposition has gone to any length in the exciting nitrate by keeping.
The céroléine process, by its power of penetrating, will, I hope, produce
an homogeneous paper, and go far to remove this annoyance.

In answer to a former Query by MR. HELE, Whatman's paper of 1849 is lightly
sized, and not hard rolled, so that twenty minutes' washing in repeated
water sufficed to remove the iodide of potassium, and if long soaked the
paper became porous, often letting the gallic acid through in the
development. I have lately been trying Turner's and Sandford's papers; they
require three or four hours' repeated washing to get rid of the salts,
being very hard rolled. Many negatives on Turner's paper, especially if
weak, exhibit a structural appearance like linen, the unequal density gives
almost exactly the same gravelly character as wax, as the positive I
inclose, taken from such a negative, shows. Not only ought collodion to be
"structureless," as MR. SHADBOLT well expresses it, but likewise all the
other substrata of iodide of silver.

T. L. MANSELL.

Guernsey.

_Photographic Experience._--The plan proposed by DR. MANSELL, in the last
Number of "N. & Q.," for comparison of photographic experiences, will, I am
sure, prove of much practical advantage and I therefore lose no time in
filling up the table published in your paper:

  1. Eight minutes' exposure.
  2. South Wales.
  3. Mr. Talbot's original receipt.
  4. Turner.
  5. 3/8 inch.
  6. 2 inches.
  7. 3 inches. Focal length, 17 inches. Maker, Ross.

I would also suggest that the character of the object copied should be
included in the above table. My answer supposes a light-coloured building,
of an ordinary sandstone colour. A view comprising foliage would require a
much longer time for its full development. In working on the sea-coast, I
find that the dark slate rocks of north Cornwall require an exposure in the
camera half as long again as the blue mountain limestone cliffs of South
Wales, which abound in actinic power.

J. D. LLEWELYN.

Pen-ller-gaer.

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies to Minor Queries.

_Turkish Language_ (Vol. ix., p. 352.).--Your correspondent HASSAN, who
would much gratify our friends the Turks if he would spell his signature
with one _s_ only, will find the object of his inquiry in a little book
just published by Clowes, Military Publisher, Charing Cross, _Turkish and
English Words and Phrases, for the Use of the British Army and Navy in the
East_, price 1s. The pronunciation is given in the Roman character, and
according to the plainest English rules.

OSMANLI.

_Dr. Edward Daniel Clarke's Charts of the Black Sea_ (Vol. ix.,
p. 132.).--A reply respecting these important Charts, and their value, was
given by the First Lord of the Admiralty in the House of Commons on March
6, in consequence of an inquiry made by Mr. French. Sir James Graham {457}
is stated by _The Times_ of the following day to have said on that
occasion:

    "The Charts alluded to by the hon. gentleman were most valuable, and
    had been made use of; but subsequent observations, and farther surveys,
    had in a great measure superseded them at the present time."

ELLUM.

_Aristotle on living Law_ (Vol. ix., p. 373).--Your correspondent H. P.
asks where Aristotle says that a judge is a living law, as the law itself
is a dumb judge. The first part of this antithesis is in _Eth. Nic._, v. 4.
§ 7.:

    "[Greek: Ho gar dikastês bouletai einai hoion dikaion empsuchon.]"

    "The judge wishes to be justice incarnate."

Your correspondent, however, probably had in his mind the passage of
Cicero, _de Leg._, iii. 1.:

    "Videtis igitur, magistratûs hanc esse vim, ut præsit, præscribatque
    recte et utilia et conjuncta cum legibus;--vereque dici, magistratum
    legem esse loquentem, legem autem mutum magistratum."

The commentators compare an antithetical sentence attributed to
Simonides,--that a picture is a silent poem, and that a poem is a speaking
picture.

L.

_Christ's or Cris Cross Row_ (Vol. viii., p. 18.).--The Alphabet. See _The
Romish Beehive_, 319.:

 "In Bacon's _Reliques of_   +---+ _Rome_, p. 257., describing
  the hallowing of churches, | A | among other ceremonies
  is the following: 'There   | B | must be made in the
                       +-----+ C +-----+
  pavement of the      | D E F G H I K | church a crosse
                       +-----+ L +-----+
  of ashes and sand wherein  | M | the whole Alphabet,
  or Christ's Crosse, shall  | O | be written in Greek and
  Latin letters.'            | P |
                             | Q |
 "Sir Thos. More, in         | R | his Works, p. 606. H, says,
 'Crosse Rowe was printed    | S | on cards for learners.'
  I first went to school     | T | at a dame's, and had a
  Horn-Book (as it was       | V | called), in which was
  the Alphabet in a form     | U | something like that here
  given, and the dame        | W | called me and other beginners
  to learn our               | X | 'Cris Cross Row;' at
  that time the term was     | Y | used, that is, about
  seventy years since."      | Z |
                             +---+

GODDARD JOHNSON.

_Titles to the Psalms in the Syriac Version._--MR. T. J. BUCKTON (Vol. ix.,
p. 242.) observes, in reference to the superscription [Hebrew: LMNTSCH
BNGYNT], "For the chief performer on the neginoth," that "the Syriac and
Arabic versions omit this superscription altogether, from _ignorance_ of
the musical sense of the words." And lower down he speaks as if [Hebrew:
NCHYLWT] were expressed in the Syriac by the word "church." I do not
question the accuracy of MR. B.'s renderings of the Hebrew words, for they
have been admitted for centuries; but I wish to observe that the translator
of the Syriac should not be lightly charged with ignorance of Hebrew, as I
can testify from an extensive acquaintance with that venerable version. I
therefore cannot allow that the words were omitted by the translator for
that reason. Besides, whenever he found a word untranslateable, he
transferred it as it was. Nor do I admit that _nehiloth_, in Psalm v., is
translated by the term "church." And this leads me to remark, what seems to
have been overlooked by most writers, viz. that the Syriac version _omits_
uniformly the titles of the Psalms as they are found in Hebrew[9]. The
inscriptions contained in the common editions of these Psalms form no part
of the translation. One of them refers to the destruction of Jerusalem by
Titus! They are not always the same. I am acquainted with at least _three
different sets_ of these headings contained in the Syriac MSS. in the
British Museum. Erpenius omitted them altogether in his edition of the
Psalter, and Dathe's follows his; for which very substantial reasons are
given by him in the "Præf. ad Lect." of his _Psalterium Syriacum_, pp. 36,
37., Halæ, 1768.

B. H. C.

[Footnote 9: Except the words "of David:" I am not sure about these.]

"_Old Rowley_" (Vol. ix., p. 235.).--The nickname of "Old Rowley," as
applied to Charles II., seems to be derived from Roland, and has reference
to the proverbial saying, "A Roland for an Oliver;" the former name being
given to Charles, in contradistinction to the Protector's name of Oliver.
Roland and Oliver were two celebrated horses, or, as some say, two pages of
Charlemagne possessing equal qualities and hence, "I'll give you a Roland
for your Oliver" was tantamount to "I'll give you as good as you send."[10]

N. L. J.

[Footnote 10: [See "N. & Q.," Vol. ii., p. 132.]]

_Wooden Effigies_ (Vol.ix., p. 17.).--I beg to refer your readers to two
figures which are in excellent preservation, and I am not aware that they
have ever obtained public notice. In the church at Boxted, near Sudbury,
Suffolk, which is the burial-place of the ancient family of Poley of Boxted
Hall, are, with several other interesting monuments, the effigies of
William Poley and Alice Shaa, his wife.

He is in armour, with a beard, and the lady in the dress of her day, with a
long pendant from her girdle, having suspended a small thick book and the
arms of Poley impaling Shaa on the cover. At her feet a greyhound to fill
up the space, in consequence of the lady being short, and their heads on
the same line. There is an inscription in relief on the cushion on which
the lady rests her head, which states that he died 17th December, 1587, and
the lady March 7, {458} 1579. The figures rest on a tomb of masonry, and
fill the recess of a window, with iron railing to protect them. Their are
painted black, so that the nature of the wood is not apparent.

Alice Shaa was the only daughter and heiress of her father, and the eldest
son of this William and Alice was Sir John Poley, Knt. (See Morant's
_Essex_, vol. i. pp. 151. 217. &c.)

R. A.

Melford.

_Abbott Families_ (Vol. ix., pp. 105. &c.).--MR. ADAMS having very
satisfactorily afforded the required information concerning Samuel Abbott,
I shall still feel very greatly obliged if any other gentleman can throw
any light upon the Archbishop's descendants, especially Sir Maurice's sons
and their issue. I have in my possession an old will of an ancestress,
sealed with the crest of Bartholomew Barnes, of London, merchant, whose
daughter was second wife and mother to Sir Maurice's children, viz.,
Bartholomew, George, Edward, and Maurice. Did any of them leave a son
called James, born about 1690 or 1700?

I. T. ABBOTT.

Darlington.

       *       *       *       *       *


Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

Every reader of the _Archæologia_ knows so well the great value of the
papers contained in it (too few in number) by the Rev. John Webb, that he
will be sure that any work edited by that gentleman will be edited with
diligence, intelligence, and learning. Such is the _Roll of the Household
Expenses of Richard de Swinfield, Bishop of Hereford, during part of the
Years 1289 and 1290_, which he has just edited for the Camden Society, in a
manner every way worthy of his reputation, which is that of one of the best
antiquaries of the day. The present volume contains only the Roll, its
endorsement, and an appendix of contemporary and explanatory documents, the
whole being richly annotated by the editor. Another volume will contain his
introduction, glossary, &c. On its completion we shall again call attention
to a work which is so creditable both to Mr. Webb and to the Camden
Society.

The third volume of the cheap and handsome library edition of _The Works of
Oliver Goldsmith_, edited by Peter Cunningham, F.S.A., which forms a
portion of _Murray's British Classics_, contains I. _The Bee_; II.
_Essays_; III. _Unacknowledged Essays_; and IV. _His Prefaces,
Introductions, &c._

Our photographic friends will be glad to hear that a new edition of
Professor Hunt's _Manual of Photography_ has just been issued, in which the
author, besides including all the most recent improvements, the process of
photographic etching, &c., has taken the opportunity of making such
alterations in the arrangements of the several divisions of the subject, as
have enabled him to place the various phenomena in a clearer view.

While on the subject of scientific publications, we notice the very able
volume just issued by Professor Beale, _The Microscope, and its Application
to Clinical Medicine_. Though addressed more particularly to medical
practitioners, it contains so much valuable instruction with respect to the
management of the microscope generally, as to render it a valuable guide to
all who are engaged in microscopic investigations.

Dr. Latham will lecture on Thursday next at the Beaumont Institution, Mile
End Road, _On the various Families of Mankind in the Russian and Turkish
Empires_. The Lecture is for the benefit of the Colet Schools of the very
poor district of St. Thomas, Stepney.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--_The Statistical Companion for 1854_, by T. C. Banfield,
Esq., is a most valuable compendium of a mass of statistical evidence
gathered from Parliamentary Blue Books, and other authentic sources, thus
supplying in one small volume the results of many very large
ones.--_Addison's Works, by Bishop Hurd_. Vol. III. of this cheap and
neatly-printed edition (which forms a part of Bohn's Series of _British
Classics_) contains Addison's Papers from _The Spectator_.--_Lives of the
Queens of England_, by Agnes Strickland, Vol. V., contains the Biographies
of Anne of Denmark, Henrietta Maria, and Catherine of Braganza.--_Poetical
Works of John Dryden_, edited by Robert Bell, Vol. III. This is the
concluding volume of Dryden in Mr. Bell's _Annotated Edition of the English
Poets_.--_Cyclopædia Bibliographica_, Part XX. The first division of this
most useful library companion is fast drawing to a close, the present Part
extending from Vance (William Ford) to Wilcocks (Thomas).--_The
Retrospective Review_, No. VII., contains some amusing articles on Ancient
Paris, Davies the Epigrammatist, the Turks in the Seventeenth Century,
Astrology, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

Particulars of Price, &c. of the following Books to be sent direct to the
gentlemen by whom they are required, and whose names and addresses are
given for that purpose:

THE ADVANCEMENT OF ARTS, MANUFACTURES, AND COMMERCE, or a Description of
Machines and Models, &c., contained in the Repository of the Society of
Arts, &c. By William Bailey, Registrar of the Society, 1772.

A REGISTER OF THE PREMIUMS AND BOUNTIES GIVEN BY THE SOCIETY FOR THE
ENCOURAGEMENT OF ARTS, MANUFACTURES, AND COMMERCE, from the original
Institution in the year 1754 to 1776 inclusive. Printed for the society by
James Phillips. 1778.

  Wanted by _P. Le Neve Foster_, 7. Upper Grove Lane, Camberwell.

SCOTT'S POETICAL WORKS. 8vo. 1830. Vol. I., or the "Minstrelsy," of that
date.

SOUTHEY'S BRAZIL. 4to. Vols. II. and III.

SALAZAR, HISTORIA DE LA CONQUISTA DE MEXICO. Fol. 1743 or 1786.

PERCY SOCIETY'S PUBLICATIONS, 93 and 94. (1l. will be given for them.)

  Wanted by _J. R. Smith_, 36. Soho Square.

ESSAYS AND SKETCHES OF LIFE AND CHARACTER, by a Gentleman who recently left
his Lodgings. London, 1820.

MEMOIR OF SHERIDAN, by the late Professor Smyth. Leeds, 1841. 12mo.

  Wanted by _John Martin_, Librarian, Woburn Abbey.

{459}

The following Works of Symon Patrick, late Lord Bishop of Ely, &c.:--

SERMON AT THE FUNERAL OF MR. JOHN SMITH. 1652.

DIVINE ARITHMETIC, Sermon at the Funeral of Mr. Samuel Jacomb, June 17,
1659.

ANGLIÆ SPECULUM, Sermon at the Fast, April 24, 1678.

SERMON AT COVENT GARDEN, Advent Sunday, 1678.

SERMON ON ST. PETER'S DAY, with enlargements. 1687.

SERMON ON ST. MARK'S DAY. 1686.

FAST SERMON BEFORE THE KING AND QUEEN, April 6, 1690: Prov. xiv. 34.

EXPOSITION OF THE TEN COMMANDMENTS. 1665.

DISCOURSE CONCERNING PRAYER.

THE PILLAR AND GROUND OF TRUTH. 4to. 1687.

EXAMINATION OF BELLARMINE'S SECOND NOTE OF THE CHURCH, viz. Antiquity. 4to.
1687.

EXAMINATION OF THE TEXTS WHICH PAPISTS CITE OUT OF THE BIBLE TO PROVE THE
SUPREMACY OF ST. PETER, &c. 1688.

ANSWER TO A BOOK ENTITLED "THE TOUCHSTONE OF THE REFORMED GOSPEL." 1692.

A PRIVATE PRAYER TO BE USED IN DIFFICULT TIMES.

A THANKSGIVING FOR OUR LATE WONDERFUL DELIVERANCE. 1689.

  Wanted by the _Rev. Alexander Taylor_, 3. Blomfield Terrace, Paddington.

ARCHÆOLOGIA, Numbers or Volumes, from Vol. XXV. to Vol. XXIX. inclusive.

  Wanted by _James Dearden_, Upton House, Poole, Dorset.

THE ARTIFICES AND IMPOSITIONS OF FALSE TEACHERS, discovered in a Visitation
Sermon. 8vo. London, 1712.

THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND NOT SUPERSTITIOUS--showing what Religions may justly
be charged with Superstition, pp. 46, 8vo. London. 1714.

PHYSICA ARISTOTELICA MODERNA ACCOMMODATA IN USUM JUVENTUTIS ACADEMICÆ.
Auctore Guilelmo Taswell. 8vo. Lond., 1718.

ANTICHRIST REVEALED AMONG THE SECT OF QUAKERS. London, 1723.

The above were written by Wm. Taswell, D.D., Rector of Newington. Surrey,
&c.

MISCELLANEA SACRA; containing the Story of Deborah and Barak; David's
Lamentations over Saul and Jonathan; a Pindaric Poem; and the Prayer of
Solomon at the Dedication of the Temple, 4to., by E. Taswell. London, 1760.

THE USEFULNESS OF SACRED MUSIC, 1 Chron. 16. 39. 40. 42., by Wm. Taswell.
A.M., Rector of Wootton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire. 8vo. London, 1742.

COMMERCE OF THE UNITED STATES AND WEST INDIES, by the Hon. Littleton W.
Tazewell. London, 1829.

  Wanted by _R. Jackson_, 3. Northampton Place, Old Kent Road.

LIBER PRECUM. 1569.

LIBER PRECUM. 1571.

LIBER PRECUM. 1660. Ch. Ch. Oxford.

LITURGIA. 1670.

ETON PRAYERS. 1705.

ENCHIRIDION PRECUM. 1707.

ENCHIRIDION PRECUM. 1715.

LIBER PRECUM. 1819. Worcester College, Oxford.

  Wanted by _Rev. J. W. Hewett_, Bloxham, Banbury.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notices to Correspondents.

BALLIOLENSIS. _We think the article in question has recently been
reprinted. If not, which we will ascertain, we shall be glad to receive
it._

G. B. A. _is thanked. His reply has been anticipated._

ABHBA. _For explanation of the monogram of the Parker Society, see_ Vol.
vii., p. 502.

I. R. R. Embost, _with hunters, refers to a deer that has been so hard
chased that she foams at the mouth_.--Stound, _in Spenser, is explained in
the glossary, as space, moment, season, hour, time_.--Yarke _is to make
ready, or prepare_.--Crampette, _in Heraldry, is the chape at the bottom of
the scabbard of a sword, to prevent the point from protruding. It is a
badge borne by the Earl de la Warr._--_An_ Ambry, _in old customs, was a
place where arms, plate, and vessels of domestic use were kept; probably a
corruption of Almonry_.--Gispen _is a pot or cup made of leather_, "_gyspen
potte_, pot de _cuir_." _Palsgrave. In use at Winchester School, according
to Kennett._--_The item in the Newcastle Accounts, "Paid for cowllinge of
Bartye Allyson, the fool," may mean, for habiting him in a friar's
cowl._--Clito, _or_ Clitones, _says Du Cange, "nom modo Regum primogenitos,
quod vult Spelmanus, sed universim filios omnes, appellarunt Anglo-Saxones,
tanquam_ [Greek: Kleitous], _id est_, inclytos, claros."--Sollerets _are
pieces of steel, which formed part of the armour for the feet_.

A YOUNG PHOTOGRAPHER _must clearly see (what we ought not to have to
repeat) that we cannot recommend particular houses for photographic
apparatus. Our advertising columns furnish all such Queries with ample
Replies._

OUR EIGHTH VOLUME _is now bound and ready for delivery, price_ 10s. 6d.,
_cloth, boards. A few sets of the whole Eight Volumes are being made up,
price_ 4l. 4s.--_For these early application is desirable._

"NOTES AND QUERIES" _is published on Friday, so that the Country
Booksellers may receive Copies in that night's parcels, and deliver them to
their Subscribers on the Saturday_.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHY.--HORNE & CO.'S Iodized Collodion, for obtaining Instantaneous
Views, and Portraits in from three to thirty seconds, according to light.

Portraits obtained by the above, for delicacy of detail rival the choicest
Daguerreotypes, specimens of which may be seen at their Establishment.

Also every description of Apparatus, Chemicals, &c. &c. used in this
beautiful Art.--123. and 121. Newgate Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION.

THE EXHIBITION OF PHOTOGRAPHS, by the most eminent English and Continental
Artists, is OPEN DAILY from Ten till Five. Free Admission.

                                            £  s. d.
  A Portrait by Mr. Talbot's Patent
    Process                                 1  1  0
  Additional Copies (each)                  0  5  0
  A Coloured Portrait, highly finished
    (small size)                            3  3  0
  A Coloured Portrait, highly finished
    (larger size)                           5  5  0

Miniatures, Oil Paintings, Water-Colour, and Chalk Drawings, Photographed
and Coloured in imitation of the Originals. Views of Country Mansions,
Churches, &c., taken at a short notice.

Cameras, Lenses, and all the necessary Photographic Apparatus and
Chemicals, are supplied, tested, and guaranteed.

Gratuitous Instruction is given to Purchasers of Sets of Apparatus.

PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION,
168. New Bond Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


COLLODION PORTRAITS AND VIEWS obtained with the greatest ease and certainty
by using BLAND & LONG'S preparation of Soluble Cotton; certainty and
uniformity of action over a lengthened period, combined with the most
faithful rendering of the half-tones, constitute this a most valuable agent
in the hands of the photographer.

Albumenized paper, for printing from glass or paper negatives, giving a
minuteness of detail unattained by any other method, 5s. per Quire.

Waxed and Iodized Papers of tried quality.

Instruction in the Processes.

    BLAND & LONG, Opticians and Photographical Instrument Makers, and
    Operative Chemists, 153. Fleet Street, London.

Catalogues sent on application.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE SIGHT preserved by the Use of SPECTACLES adapted to suit every variety
of Vision by means of SMEE'S OPTOMETER, which effectually prevents Injury
to the Eyes from the Selection of Improper Glasses, and is extensively
employed by

BLAND & LONG, Opticians, 153. Fleet Street, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


IMPROVEMENT IN COLLODION.--J. B. HOCKIN & CO., Chemists, 289. Strand, have,
by an improved mode of Iodizing, succeeded in producing a Collodion equal,
they may say superior, in sensitiveness and density of Negative, to any
other hitherto published; without diminishing the keeping properties and
appreciation of half-tint for which their manufacture has been esteemed.

Apparatus, pure Chemicals, and all the requirements for the practice of
Photography. Instruction in the Art.

THE COLLODION AND POSITIVE PAPER PROCESS. By J. B. HOCKIN. Price 1s. Per
Post, 1s. 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHIC CAMERAS.

OTTEWILL AND MORGAN'S

Manufactory, 24. & 25. Charlotte Terrace, Caledonian Road, Islington.

OTTEWILL'S Registered Double Body Folding Camera, adapted for Landscapes or
Portraits, may be had of A. ROSS, Featherstone Buildings, Holborn; the
Photographic Institution, Bond Street; and at the Manufactory as above,
where every description of Cameras, Slides, and Tripods may be had. The
Trade supplied.

       *       *       *       *       *


{460}

WESTERN LIFE ASSURANCE AND ANNUITY SOCIETY.

3. PARLIAMENT STREET, LONDON.

Founded A.D. 1842.

  _Directors._

  H. E. Bicknell, Esq.          | T. Grissell, Esq.
  T. S. Cocks, Jun. Esq., M.P.  | J. Hunt, Esq.
  G. H. Drew, Esq.              | J. A. Lethbridge, Esq.
  W. Evans, Esq.                | E. Lucas, Esq.
  W. Freeman, Esq.              | J. Lys Seager, Esq.
  F. Fuller, Esq.               | J. B. White, Esq.
  J. H. Goodhart, Esq.          | J. Carter Wood, Esq.

  _Trustees._--W. Whateley, Esq., Q.C.; George Drew, Esq., T. Grissell,
      Esq.
  _Physician._--William Rich. Basham, M.D.
  _Bankers._--Messrs. Cocks, Biddulph, and Co., Charing Cross.

VALUABLE PRIVILEGE.

POLICIES effected in this Office do not become void through temporary
difficulty in paying a Premium, as permission is given upon application to
suspend the payment at interest, according to the conditions detailed in
the Prospectus.

Specimens of Rates of Premium for Assuring 100l., with a Share in
three-fourths of the Profits:--

  Age       £   s.  d. | Age       £   s.  d.
   17       1  14   4  |  32       2  10   8
   22       1  18   8  |  37       2  18   6
   27       2   4   5  |  42       3   8   2

ARTHUR SCRATCHLEY, M.A., F.R.A.S., Actuary.

Now ready, price 10s. 6d., Second Edition, with material additions,
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT and EMIGRATION: being a TREATISE ON BENEFIT BUILDING
SOCIETIES, and on the General Principles of Land Investment, exemplified in
the Cases of Freehold Land Societies, Building Companies, &c. With a
Mathematical Appendix on Compound Interest and Life Assurance. By ARTHUR
SCRATCHLEY, M.A., Actuary to the Western Life Assurance Society, 3.
Parliament Street, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


BANK OF DEPOSIT. No. 3. Pall Mall East, and 7. St. Martin's Place,
Trafalgar Square, London.

_Established_ A. D. 1844.

INVESTMENT ACCOUNTS may be opened daily, with capital of any amount.

Interest payable in January and July.

  PETER MORRISON,
  Managing Director.

Prospectuses and Forms sent free on application.

       *       *       *       *       *


HOPE LIFE OFFICE: incorporated under Act of Parliament. Guarantee fund
100,000l.

Life assurance, endowments, annuities, and honesty guarantee bonds, at
moderate and just premiums.

  By order,
  H. C. EIFFE, General Manager.

4. Princes Street, Bank.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHUBBB'S LOCKS, with all the recent improvements. Strong fire-proof safes,
cash and deed boxes. Complete lists of sizes and prices may be had on
application.

CHUBB & SON, 57. St. Paul's Churchyard, London; 28. Lord Street, Liverpool;
16. Market Street, Manchester; and Horseley Fields, Wolverhampton.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE ST. MARGARET'S ESTATE, Richmond.--This magnificent MANSION and
Picturesque PARK at St. Margaret's, opposite Richmond Gardens, may be
VIEWED daily, between the hours of 12 and 5 o'clock (Sundays excepted), by
cards only, to be had of the Executive Committee of the Conservative Land
Society. Cards will be forwarded on application to

CHARLES LEWIS GRUNEISEN, Sec.

Offices, 33. Norfolk Street, Strand, April 15, 1854.

       *       *       *       *       *


Patronised by the Royal Family.

TWO THOUSAND POUNDS for any person producing Articles superior to the
following:

THE HAIR RESTORED AND GREYNESS PREVENTED.

BEETHAM'S CAPILLARY FLUID is acknowledged to be the most effectual article
for Restoring the Hair in Baldness, strengthening when weak and fine,
effectually preventing falling or turning grey, and for restoring its
natural colour without the use of dye. The rich glossy appearance it
imparts is the admiration of every person. Thousands have experienced its
astonishing efficacy. Bottles 2s. 6d.; double size, 4s. 6d.; 7s. 6d. equal
to 4 small; 11s. to 6 small; 21s. to 13 small. The most perfect beautifier
ever invented.

SUPERFLUOUS HAIR REMOVED.

BEETHAM'S VEGETABLE EXTRACT does not cause pain or injury to the skin. Its
effect is unerring, and it is now patronised by royalty and hundreds of the
first families. Bottles, 5s.

BEETHAM'S PLASTER is the only effectual remover of Corns and Bunions. It
also reduces enlarged Great Toe Joints in an astonishing manner. If space
allowed, the testimony of upwards of twelve thousand individuals, during
the last five years, might be inserted. Packets, 1s.; Boxes, 2s. 6d. Sent
Free by BEETHAM, Chemist, Cheltenham, for 14 or 36 Post Stamps.

    Sold by PRING, 30. Westmorland Street; JACKSON, 9. Westland Row; BEWLEY
    & EVANS, Dublin; GOULDING, 108. Patrick Street, Cork; BARRY, 9. Main
    Street, Kinsale; GRATTAN, Belfast; MURDOCK, BROTHERS, Glasgow; DUNCAN &
    FLOCKHART, Edinburgh. SANGER, 150. Oxford Street; PROUT, 229. Strand;
    KEATING, St. Paul's Churchyard; SAVORY & MOORE, Bond Street; HANNAY,
    63. Oxford Street; London. All Chemists and Perfumers will procure
    them.

       *       *       *       *       *


ALLSOPP'S PALE or BITTER ALE. MESSRS. S. ALLSOPP & SONS beg to inform the
TRADE that they are now registering Orders for the March Brewings of their
PALE ALE in Casks of 18 Gallons and upwards, at the BREWERY,
Burton-on-Trent; and at the under-mentioned Branch Establishments:

  LONDON, at 61. King William Street, City.
  LIVERPOOL, at Cook Street.
  MANCHESTER, at Ducie Place.
  DUDLEY, at the Burnt Tree.
  GLASGOW, at 115. St. Vincent Street.
  DUBLIN, at 1. Crampton Quay.
  BIRMINGHAM, at Market Hall.
  SOUTH WALES, at 13. King Street, Bristol.

MESSRS. ALLSOPP & SONS take the opportunity of announcing to PRIVATE
FAMILIES that their ALES, so strongly recommended by the Medical
Profession, may be purchased in DRAUGHT and BOTTLES GENUINE from all the
most RESPECTABLE LICENSED VICTUALLERS, on "ALLSOPP'S PALE ALE" being
specially asked for.

When in bottle, the genuineness of the label can be ascertained by its
having "ALLSOPP & SONS" written across it.

       *       *       *       *       *


LIBRARY OF VALUABLE BOOKS.

MR. BENTLEY will SELL by AUCTION, in the Lecture Room of the Natural
History Society, at Worcester, on Tuesday, the 23rd Day of MAY, 1854, at
Eleven o'clock, A VALUABLE LIBRARY of RARE and CHOICE BOOKS, including one
Copy of the First Folio Edition of Shakspeare, London, 1623, and two
varying Copies of the Second Folio, London, 1632, with many valuable
Black-letter Books in Divinity and History.

Catalogues may be had at the Office of the Auctioneer, 9. Foregate Street,
Worcester, one week previous to the Sale.

       *       *       *       *       *


W. H. HART, RECORD AGENT and LEGAL ANTIQUARIAN (who is in the possession of
Indices to many of the early Public Records whereby his Inquiries are
greatly facilitated) begs to inform Authors and Gentlemen engaged in
Antiquarian or Literary Pursuits, that he is prepared to undertake searches
among the Public Records, MSS. in the British Museum, Ancient Wills, or
other Depositories of a similar Nature, in any Branch of Literature,
History, Topography, Genealogy, or the like, and in which he has had
considerable experience.

1. ALBERT TERRACE, NEW CROSS, HATCHAM, SURREY.

       *       *       *       *       *


ALLEN'S ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE, containing Size, Price, and Description of
upwards of 100 articles, consisting of PORTMANTEAUS, TRAVELLING-BAGS,
Ladies' Portmanteaus, DESPATCH-BOXES, WRITING-DESKS, DRESSING-CASES, and
other travelling requisites, Gratis on application, or sent free by Post on
receipt of Two Stamps.

MESSRS. ALLEN'S registered Despatch-box and Writing-desk, their
Travelling-bag with the opening as large as the bag, and the new
Portmanteau containing four compartments, are undoubtedly the best articles
of the kind ever produced.

J. W. & T. ALLEN, 18. & 22. West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *


BENNETT'S MODEL WATCH, as shown at the GREAT EXHIBITION. No. 1. Class X.,
in Gold and Silver Cases, in five qualities, and adapted to all Climates,
may now be had at the MANUFACTORY, 65. CHEAPSIDE. Superior Gold London-made
Patent Levers, 17, 15, and 12 guineas. Ditto, in Silver Cases, 8, 6, and 4
guineas. First-rate Geneva Levers, in Gold Cases, 12, 10, and 8 guineas.
Ditto. in Silver Cases, 8, 6, and 5 guineas. Superior Lever, with
Chronometer Balance, Gold, 27, 23, and 19 guineas. Bennett's Pocket
Chronometer, Gold, 50 guineas; Silver, 40 guineas. Every Watch skilfully
examined, timed, and its performance guaranteed. Barometers, 2l., 3l., and
4l. Thermometers from 1s. each.

BENNETT, Watch, Clock, and Instrument Maker to the Royal Observatory, the
Board of Ordnance, the Admiralty, and the Queen,

65. CHEAPSIDE.

       *       *       *       *       *


HEAL & SON'S SPRING MATTRESSES.--The most durable Bedding is a well-made
SPRING MATTRESS; it retains its elasticity, and will wear longer without
repair than any other mattress, and with _one_ French Wool and Hair
Mattress on it is a most luxurious Bed. HEAL & SON make them in three
varieties. For price of the different sizes and qualities, apply for HEAL &
SON'S ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF BEDSTEADS and priced LIST OF BEDDING. It
contains designs and prices of upwards of 100 Bedsteads, and prices of
every description of Bedding, and is sent free by Post.

HEAL & SON, 196. Tottenham Court Road.

       *       *       *       *       *


Printed by THOMAS CLARK SHAW, of No. 10. Stonefield Street, in the Parish
of St. Mary, Islington, at No. 5. New Street Square, in the Parish of St.
Bride, in the City of London; and published by GEORGE BELL, of No. 186.
Fleet Street, in the Parish of St. Dunstan in the West, in the City of
London, Publisher, at No. 186. Fleet Street aforesaid.--Saturday, May 13.
1854.

       *       *       *       *       *


Corrections made to printed original.

page 443, "the last day of November, 1674.": '1574' in original.

page 450, "(afterwards Sir Francis)": 'aftewards' in original. "p. 291.":
'p. 29.' in original (reference checked).






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Notes and Queries, Number 237, May 13,
1854, by Various

